
1. Access Microbiol. 2020 Mar 23;2(6):acmi000124. doi: 10.1099/acmi.0.000124.
eCollection 2020.

Abiotrophia defectiva endophthalmitis following routine cataract surgery: the
first reported case in the United Kingdom.

Chihaia M(1), Richardson-May J(2), Al-Saffar L(3), Kettledas H(4), Rashid M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Trust Grade Registrar, Ophthalmology, Royal Bournemouth Hospital, Dorset,
Bournemouth, UK.
(2)Specialty Registrar Year 2, Ophthalmology, Royal Bournemouth Hospital, Dorset,
Bournemouth, UK.
(3)Consultant Microbiologist, Ophthalmology, Royal Bournemouth Hospital,
Bournemouth, UK.
(4)Consultant Ophthalmologist, Dorset County Hospital, Dorchester, UK.
(5)Consultant ophthalmologist, Royal Bournemouth Hospital, Bournemouth, UK.

Introduction: Abiotrophia defectiva is a fastidious organism that has been
implicated in severe infections such as endocarditis in immunocompetent patients.
Modern tools are available to aid identification, but the main challenge remains 
clinical suspicion of A. defectiva .
Case presentation: An otherwise fit and well 65-year-old female presented with
reduced vision, red eye and discomfort 2 days following routine left cataract
surgery. She had visual acuity of light perception only, significant anterior
chamber inflammation (including hypopyon) and limited fundal view. She was
diagnosed with post-operative endophthalmitis and 0.1 ml of ceftazidime
(2 mg/0.1 ml) and 0.1 ml vancomycin (2 mg/0.1 ml) were injected intravitreally
after vitreous aspiration. Subconjunctival cefuroxime was also injected. A repeat
injection was performed on day three of admission. Gram staining revealed
Gram-positive long-chain cocci, which were identified as A. defectiva . The
patient was discharged on oral ciprofloxacin 500 mg twice a day with oral
prednisolone 60 mg once a day; this was tapered and stopped at 8 weeks
post-discharge. The left eye received dexamethasone 0.1 % 6 times a day (again,
tapered over 8 weeks), moxifloxacin 5 % 6 times a day and atropine 1 % twice a
day. Vision improved to 6/12 unaided (6/9.5 with pinhole) at 9 weeks
post-operatively, with a clear fundal view.
Conclusion: We present a case of A. defectiva endophthalmitis following routine
cataract surgery. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case in the UK and
the fourth globally, which with prompt treatment ended with a good visual
outcome.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1099/acmi.0.000124 
PMCID: PMC7494195
PMID: 32974588 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts
of interest.

