
1. Ophthalmologe. 2020 Feb 28. doi: 10.1007/s00347-020-01077-7. [Epub ahead of
print]

[Endophthalmitis after perforation of the conjunctiva by a glaucoma gel-stent
implant].

[Article in German]

Moussaoui LE(1), Djalali-Talab Y(1), Walter P(1), Plange N(1), Kuerten D(1),
Fuest M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Augenheilkunde, Uniklinik RWTH Aachen, Pauwelsstr. 30, 52074,
Aachen, Deutschland.
(2)Klinik für Augenheilkunde, Uniklinik RWTH Aachen, Pauwelsstr. 30, 52074,
Aachen, Deutschland. mfuest@ukaachen.de.

Intraocular infections associated with Abiotrophia defectiva are rare. This
article reports the case of a 57-year-old woman with endophthalmitis associated
with Abiotrophia defectiva 3 months after uncomplicated cataract surgery combined
with the implantation of a glaucoma gel-stent in the right eye. The patient had
complained of redness of the right upper nasal conjunctiva and pain for 2 weeks
prior to the endophthalmitis. A topical steroid eyedrop treatment without
antibiotic additives had temporarily improved the situation. The patient
presented with hypopyon, acute deterioration of vision and severe periocular pain
of the right eye since the early morning. The gel-stent had spontaneously
perforated the conjunctiva. The patient was immediately started on local and
systemic antibiotics and underwent pars plana vitrectomy with intravitreal
antibiotic application 6 h after presentation. Unlike other ocular infections
with Abiotrophia defectiva, this case had a relatively benign course most likely 
due to the prompt intervention. In clinical routine, patients, who present with
acute deterioration of vision and pain after glaucoma surgery, should be examined
urgently considering a possible spontaneous conjunctival perforation and late
onset endophthalmitis. Additionally, conjunctivitis of unclear origin following
ocular surgery should always be treated with antibiotics, particularly when
steroids are administered and monitored closely.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-020-01077-7 
PMID: 32112220 

