
1. J Food Sci Technol. 2020 May;57(5):1904-1916. doi: 10.1007/s13197-019-04226-2.
Epub 2019 Dec 23.

Acetic acid bacteria (AAB) involved in cocoa fermentation from Ivory Coast:
species diversity and performance in acetic acid production.

Soumahoro S(1)(2), Ouattara HG(1), Droux M(2), Nasser W(2), Niamke SL(1),
Reverchon S(2).

Author information: 
(1)1Laboratoire de Biotechnologies, UFR Biosciences, Université Félix
Houphouet-Boigny Abidjan, 22 bp, 582 Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire.
(2)2INSA-Lyon, Université Claude Bernard Lyon1, CNRS, UMR5240, Microbiologie,
Adaptation, Pathogénie, Univ Lyon, 10 rue Raphaël Dubois, 69622 Villeurbanne,
France.

In this study, we investigated the diversity of AAB from fermenting cocoa and the
production of acetic acid in response to various environmental conditions.
Ribosomal 16S gene sequence analysis and PCR-RFLP showed a restricted microbiota 
mainly composed of Acetobacter pasteurianus, Acetobacter tropicalis and
Acetobacter okinawensis sp., consistently found in all six regions studied.
Meanwhile Acetobacter malorum, Acetobacter ghanensis and Gluconobacter oxydans
were isolated as minor species in specific regions. The dominant species were
mainly isolated in the first 72 h period of natural cocoa fermentation while the 
minor species were present toward the later stages. Acetobacter okinawensis, a
newly isolated species, was able to yield an unusually high quantity, up to
62 g/L of acetic acid at 30 °C. However, a shift of temperature to 35 °C severely
impaired acid production in most strains of this species. While acetic acid
production increases for up to 6 days in Acetobacter okinawensis and Acetobacter 
pasteurianus, it decreases beyond 4 days in Acetobacter tropicalis strains. The
production of acetic acid was strongly dependent on environmental conditions,
with optimal production between pH 4 and 5, under ethanol concentration below 8% 
and temperatures above 35-40 °C, corresponding to conditions prevailing in the
first half of fermentation process. Acetobacter tropicalis was more productive at
higher ethanol concentration and Acetobacter okinawensis at low pH. Species
diversity and different behavior of strains highlight the importance of valuable 
starter selection for well-controlled cocoa fermentation.

© Association of Food Scientists & Technologists (India) 2019.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-019-04226-2 
PMCID: PMC7171043 [Available on 2021-05-01]
PMID: 32327801 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that they
have no conflict of interest.

