
1. Lab Anim Res. 2020 Jun 5;36:15. doi: 10.1186/s42826-020-00050-4. eCollection
2020.

Enhanced alcohol degradation and hepatic protective effects of an Acetobacter
Pasteurianus-derived product, CureZyme-ACE, in an acute intoxication rat model.

Jeon EJ(1), Cho YS(1), Kim AH(2), Shim JM(2), Kim YS(2), Piao Z(2), Shin YC(2),
Kwon J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Animal Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine,
Jeonbuk National UniversityJeonbuk, 54596 Iksan, Republic of Korea.
(2)Amicogen, Inc., Jinsung, Jinju, Republic of Korea.

Excessive alcohol consumption induces acute intoxication and various hepatic
diseases. In this study, we investigated the effect of the CureZyme-ACE (CA),
Acetobacter Pasteurianus (AP)-derived product, in acute intoxication rats. The
ethanol and acetaldehyde levels of serum were lower in rats treated with CA than 
those who only treated ethanol. The activities of alcohol dehydrogenase and
acetaldehyde dehydrogenase also recovered faster in the CA group than
only-ethanol group. The transaminase levels (AST, ALT) in the CA group were
significantly lower than only-ethanol group. In addition, Hepatic histological
analyses and stomach wall were demonstrated that the CA-treated group recovered
faster than only-ethanol group. With regard to most characteristics, we found
that CA had dose-dependent effects. At high concentrations of CA, there were no
differences in the tested parameters compared to those of normal rats. These
findings indicate that CA reduces the serum alcohol concentration and some of the
hepatic damage caused by alcohol intoxication.

Â© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1186/s42826-020-00050-4 
PMCID: PMC7275519
PMID: 32518763 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no
conflict of interest.

