
1. J Environ Sci Health B. 2020;55(5):447-454. doi: 10.1080/03601234.2019.1710985.
Epub 2020 Jan 15.

In silico genome analysis of an acid mine drainage species, Acidiphilium
multivorum, for potential commercial acetic acid production and biomining.

Micciche AC(1), Barabote RD(2), Dittoe DK(1), Ricke SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science, Center for Food Safety, University of Arkansas,
Fayetteville, Arkansas, USA.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville,
Arkansas, USA.

The genome of Acidiphilium multivorum strain AIU 301, acidophilic, aerobic
Gram-negative bacteria, was investigated for potential metabolic pathways
associated with organic acid production and metal uptake. The genome was compared
to other acidic mine drainage isolates, Acidiphilium cryptum JF-5 and
Acidithiobacillus ferrooxidans ATCC 23270, as well as Acetobacter pasteurianus
386B, which ferments cocoa beans. Plasmids between two Acidiphilium spp. were
compared, and only two of the sixteen plasmids were identified as potentially
similar. Comparisons of the genome size to the number of protein coding sequences
indicated that A. multivorum and A. cryptum follow the line of best fit unlike A.
pasteurianus 386B, which suggests that it was improperly annotated in the
database. Pathways between these four species were analyzed bioinformatically and
are discussed here. A. multivorum AIU 301, shares pathways with A. pasteurianus
386B including aldehyde and alcohol dehydrogenase pathways, which are used in the
generation of vinegar. Mercury reductase, arsenate reductase and sulfur
utilization proteins were identified and discussed at length. The absence of
sulfur utilization proteins from A. multivorum AIU 301 suggests that this species
uses previously undefined pathways for sulfur acquisition. Bioinformatic
examination revealed novel pathways that may benefit commercial fields including 
acetic acid production and biomining.

DOI: 10.1080/03601234.2019.1710985 
PMID: 31941390  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

