
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Aug 1;156:598-607. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.04.078.
Epub 2020 Apr 17.

Genomic characterization provides genetic evidence for bacterial cellulose
synthesis by Acetobacter pasteurianus RSV-4 strain.

Thakur K(1), Kumar V(1), Kumar V(1), Yadav SK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Innovative and Applied Bioprocessing (CIAB), Sector-81 (Knowledge
City), Mohali 140306, PB, India.
(2)Center of Innovative and Applied Bioprocessing (CIAB), Sector-81 (Knowledge
City), Mohali 140306, PB, India. Electronic address: sudesh@ciab.res.in.

There is ongoing quest to look for alternate sustainable and renewable
biopolymers which can address the existing environmental issues. Bacterial
cellulose could be one such option. Several organisms have been reported to
produce bacterial cellulose. Among this, acetic acid bacteria (AAB) are reported 
to be one of the major producers of bacterial cellulose. Recently, we have
identified an Acetobacter pasteurianus RSV-4 and reported to produce high tensile
strength bacterial cellulose. In order to globally understand its genetic
structure, a draft genome sequence of Acetobacter pasteurianus RSV-4 was
performed in the present study. The assembled genome had 101 contigs contributing
to a total length of 3.8 Mbp. Predicted coding DNA sequences were 3311, of which 
approximately 70% were assigned the functions. Genome level phylogenetic analysis
revealed that RSV-4 belongs to A. pasteurianus. Glycolysis was found to be
incomplete in the genome analysis of RSV-4, while the genes/enzymes involved in
pentose-phosphate pathway were present. The final draft genome sequence lacked
bacterial cellulose synthase (bcs) operon. However, the presence of operon was
evident in raw genomic sequences by Sanger sequencing. Therefore, presence of bcs
operon in Acetobacter pasteurianus RSV-4 has documented its potential for
bacterial cellulose production.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.04.078 
PMID: 32305370 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no competing interests.

