
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Dec;92:103597. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103597. Epub 2020 Jul 
22.

Genome-scale metabolic modeling of Acetobacter pasteurianus 386B reveals its
metabolic adaptation to cocoa fermentation conditions.

Pelicaen R(1), Gonze D(2), De Vuyst L(3), Weckx S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Research Group of Industrial Microbiology and Food Biotechnology (IMDO),
Faculty of Sciences and Bioengineering Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Brussel
(VUB), Pleinlaan 2, B-1050, Brussels, Belgium; ULB-VUB Interuniversity Institute 
of Bioinformatics in Brussels [(IB)(2)], Campus Plaine, CP 263, B-1050, Brussels,
Belgium.
(2)Unité de Chronobiologie Théorique, Service de Chimie Physique, Faculté des
Sciences, Université libre de Bruxelles (ULB), Campus Plaine, CP 231, Boulevard
du Triomphe, B-1050, Brussels, Belgium; ULB-VUB Interuniversity Institute of
Bioinformatics in Brussels [(IB)(2)], Campus Plaine, CP 263, B-1050, Brussels,
Belgium.
(3)Research Group of Industrial Microbiology and Food Biotechnology (IMDO),
Faculty of Sciences and Bioengineering Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Brussel
(VUB), Pleinlaan 2, B-1050, Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Research Group of Industrial Microbiology and Food Biotechnology (IMDO),
Faculty of Sciences and Bioengineering Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Brussel
(VUB), Pleinlaan 2, B-1050, Brussels, Belgium; ULB-VUB Interuniversity Institute 
of Bioinformatics in Brussels [(IB)(2)], Campus Plaine, CP 263, B-1050, Brussels,
Belgium. Electronic address: stefan.weckx@vub.be.

Acetobacter pasteurianus 386B has been selected as a candidate functional starter
culture to better control the cocoa fermentation process. Previously, its genome 
has been sequenced and a genome-scale metabolic model (GEM) has been
reconstructed. To understand its metabolic adaptation to cocoa fermentation
conditions, different flux balance analysis (FBA) simulations were performed and 
compared with experimental data. In particular, metabolic flux distributions were
simulated for two phases that characterize the growth of A. pasteurianus 386B
under cocoa fermentation conditions, predicting a switch in respiratory chain
usage in between these phases. The possible influence on the resulting energy
production was shown using a reduced version of the GEM. FBA simulations revealed
the importance of the compartmentalization of the ethanol oxidation reactions,
namely in the periplasm or in the cytoplasm, and highlighted the potential role
of ethanol as a source of carbon, energy, and NADPH. Regarding the latter, the
physiological function of a proton-translocating NAD(P)+ transhydrogenase was
further investigated in silico. This study revealed the potential of using a GEM 
to simulate the metabolism of A. pasteurianus 386B, and may provide a general
framework toward a better physiological understanding of functional starter
cultures in food fermentation processes.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103597 
PMID: 32950138 

