
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Dec;92:103559. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103559. Epub 2020 Jun 
12.

Deciphering the d-/l-lactate-producing microbiota and manipulating their
accumulation during solid-state fermentation of cereal vinegar.

Chai LJ(1), Shen MN(2), Sun J(2), Deng YJ(2), Lu ZM(3), Zhang XJ(3), Shi JS(4),
Xu ZH(5).

Author information: 
(1)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology, Jiangnan
University, Wuxi, 214122, PR China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology of Ministry of Education, School of
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, PR China.
(3)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology, Jiangnan
University, Wuxi, 214122, PR China; Jiangsu Engineering Research Center for
Bioactive Products Processing Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, PR
China.
(4)School of Pharmaceutical Science, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, PR China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology of Ministry of Education, School of
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, PR China; National Engineering 
Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122,
PR China; National Engineering Research Center of Solid-State Brewing, Luzhou,
646000, PR China. Electronic address: zhenghxu@jiangnan.edu.cn.

Symphony orchestra of multi-microorganisms characterizes the solid-state acetic
acid fermentation process of Chinese cereal vinegars. Lactate is the predominant 
non-volatile acid and plays indispensable roles in flavor formation. This study
investigated the microbial consortia driving the metabolism of D-/l-lactate
during fermentation. Sequencing analysis based on D-/l-lactate dehydrogenase
genes demonstrated that Lactobacillus (relative abundance: > 95%) dominated the
production of both d-lactate and l-lactate, showing species-specific features
between the two types. Lactobacillus helveticus (>65%) and L. reuteri (~80%)
respectively dominated l- and d-lactate-producing communities. D-/l-lactate
production and utilization capabilities of eight predominant Lactobacillus
strains were determined by culture-dependent approach. Subsequently, D-/l-lactate
producer L. plantarum M10-1 (d:l ≈ 1:1), l-lactate producer L. casei 21M3-1
(D:L ≈ 0.2:9.8) and D-/l-lactate utilizer Acetobacter pasteurianus G3-2 were
selected to modulate the metabolic flux of D-/l-lactate of microbial consortia.
The production ratio of D-/l-lactate was correspondingly shifted coupling with
microbial consortia changes. Bioaugmentation with L.casei 21M3-1 merely enhanced 
l-lactate production, displaying ~4-fold elevation at the end of fermentation.
Addition of L.plantarum M10-1 twice increased both D- and l-lactate production,
while A. pasteurianus G3-2 decreased the content of D-/l-isomer. Our results
provided an alternative strategy to specifically manipulate the metabolic flux
within microbial consortia of certain ecological niches.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103559 
PMID: 32950153 

