
1. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2020 Jul 1;367(14). pii: fnaa109. doi:
10.1093/femsle/fnaa109.

AcGI1, a novel genomic island carrying antibiotic resistance integron In687 in
multidrug resistant Achromobacter xylosoxidans in a teaching hospital in
Thailand.

Pongchaikul P(1)(2), Santanirand P(3), Antonyuk S(4), Winstanley C(2), Darby
AC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Chakri Naruebodindra Medical Institute, Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi
Hospital, Mahidol University, Bang Phli, Samut Prakan 10540, Thailand.
(2)Institute of Infection and Global Health, University of Liverpool, Liverpool
L69 3BE, UK.
(3)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol
University, Rama VI Road, Bangkok 10400, Thailand.
(4)Institute of Integrative Biology, University of Liverpool, Liverpool L69 7ZB, 
UK.

This study investigated the genetic basis of multidrug resistance in two strains 
of Achromobacter xylosoxidans isolated from patients attending a hospital in
Thailand in 2012. These isolates were highly resistant to cephalosporins,
aminoglycosides, fluoroquinolones, co-trimoxazole and carbapenems. Whole genome
sequencing revealed that the two isolates were not clonally related and
identified a carbapenem resistance gene-habouring integron (In687), residing in a
novel genomic island, AcGI1. This In687 shares 100% identical nucleotide sequence
with ones found in Acinetobacter baumannii Aci 16, isolated from the same
hospital in 2007. We report the first analysis of multidrug-resistant A.
xylosoxidans isolated in Thailand, and the first example of this island in A.
xylosoxidans. Our data support the idea that resistance has spread in Thailand
via horizontal gene transfer between species and suggest the possibility of A.
xylosoxidans may serve as a reservoir of antibiotic resistance, especially in
hospital setting.

Â© FEMS 2020.

DOI: 10.1093/femsle/fnaa109 
PMID: 32592387 

