
1. Cureus. 2020 Aug 17;12(8):e9818. doi: 10.7759/cureus.9818.

Nosocomial Achromobacter xylosoxidans Infection Presenting as a Cavitary Lung
Lesion in a Lung Cancer Patient.

Sebanayagam V(1), Nguyen P(2), Nassar M(1), Soubani A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, Wayne State University School of 
Medicine, Detroit, USA.
(2)Internal Medicine, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, USA.

Achromobacter xylosoxidans is a Gram-negative bacillus that is known to cause
nosocomial infections, primarily in patients with hematological malignancies. The
most common primary manifestation is bacteremia. We report a novel case of
primary A. xylosoxidans infection presenting as a cavitary lung lesion with
associated pneumonia in a lung cancer patient who showed no evidence of malignant
disease progression after radiation therapy. Our patient was initially admitted
for acute hypoxic respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation. Initial
computed tomography (CT) revealed a cavitary lesion in the right upper lobe of
the lung. Diagnostic bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was performed
and was negative for infectious etiologies including tuberculosis (TB) and fungal
infections. Cytology was also negative for malignancy. However, the bacterial
culture grew A. xylosoxidans. Antimicrobial therapy was initiated based on
culture susceptibilities and the patient showed significant improvement in oxygen
requirements. Due to poor functional status, the palliative care route was
pursued and mechanical ventilation weaning was not performed. Cavitary pulmonary 
infections secondary to A. xylosoxidans are rarely reported in the medical
literature. After conducting a thorough PubMed database search of the medical
literature, we believe this is the first case of A. xylosoxidans infection
manifesting as a cavitary lung lesion with associated pneumonia in a lung cancer 
patient.

Copyright Â© 2020, Sebanayagam et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.9818 
PMCID: PMC7496036
PMID: 32953328 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

