
1. Environ Microbiol. 2020 Aug 18. doi: 10.1111/1462-2920.15201. [Epub ahead of
print]

Anaerobic biodegradation of phenanthrene by a newly isolated nitrate-dependent
Achromobacter denitrificans strain PheN1 and exploration of the biotransformation
processes by metabolite and genome analyses.

Zhang Z(1), Sun J(1), Guo H(1), Wang C(1), Fang T(1), Rogers MJ(2), He J(2), Wang
H(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Joint Laboratory of Environment Simulation and Pollution Control,
School of Environment, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, China.
(2)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, National University of
Singapore, Singapore.

Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are widespread and harmful contaminants
and are more persistent under anaerobic conditions. The bioremediation of PAHs in
anaerobic zones has been enhanced by treating the contamination with nitrate,
which is thermodynamically favourable, cost-effective, and highly soluble.
However, anaerobic PAHs biotransformation processes that employ nitrate as an
electron acceptor have not been fully explored. In this study, we investigated
the anaerobic biotransformation of PAHs by strain PheN1, a newly isolated
phenanthrene-degrading denitrifier, using phenanthrene as a model compound. PheN1
is phylogenetically closely related to Achromobacter denitrificans and reduces
nitrate to nitrite (not N2 ) during the anaerobic phenanthrene degradation
process. Phenanthrene biotransformation processes were detected using gas
chromatography-mass spectrometry and were further examined by reverse
transcription-quantitative PCR and genome analyses. Carboxylation and methylation
were both found to be the initial steps in the phenanthrene degradation process. 
Downstream biotransformation processed benzene compounds and cyclohexane
derivatives. This study describes the isolation of an anaerobic
phenanthrene-degrading bacterium along with the pure-culture evidence of
phenanthrene biotransformation processes with nitrate as an electron acceptor.
The findings in this study can improve our understanding of anaerobic PAHs
biodegradation processes and guide PAHs bioremediation by adding nitrate to
anaerobic environments.

Â© 2020 Society for Applied Microbiology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1462-2920.15201 
PMID: 32812321 

