
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Jul 18. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-01977-x. [Epub ahead of
print]

Complete genome sequence of the aromatic-hydrocarbon-degrading bacterium
Achromobacter xylosoxidans DN002.

Li Y(1), Tian Y(1), Hao Z(1), Ma Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Shaanxi Provincial Key Laboratory of Biotechnology, Key Laboratory of
Resources Biology and Biotechnology in Western China, Ministry of Education,
College of Life Science, Northwest University, 229 TaibaiNorth Rd, Xi'an, 710069,
Shaanxi, People's Republic of China.
(2)Shaanxi Provincial Key Laboratory of Biotechnology, Key Laboratory of
Resources Biology and Biotechnology in Western China, Ministry of Education,
College of Life Science, Northwest University, 229 TaibaiNorth Rd, Xi'an, 710069,
Shaanxi, People's Republic of China. mayanling@nwu.edu.cn.

Achromobacter xylosoxidans DN002 is capable of utilizing numerous aromatic
hydrocarbons as sole carbon and energy resource. In this study, the whole genome 
of strain DN002 was sequenced and analyzed, which consisted of one circular
chromosome of 5,943,204 bp and a 278,917 bp plasmid with an average GC content of
65.46 mol%, 5694 protein-coding genes, 13 rRNA genes and 57 tRNA genes. Analysis 
of cluster of orthologous group (COG) demonstrated that strain DN002 had
remarkable gene abundance foramino acid transport and metabolism, transcription, 
inorganic ion transport and metabolism, energy production and conversion, and
carbohydrate transport and metabolism. Genes related to biodegradation of
aromatic hydrocarbons, chemotaxis and flagella were identified from the genome,
which will advance our fundamental understanding the molecular mechanism for
degradation and metabolizing of aromatic hydrocarbons.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-01977-x 
PMID: 32683476 

