
1. AMB Express. 2020 Aug 26;10(1):155. doi: 10.1186/s13568-020-01093-5.

Bioconversion of biphenyl to a polyhydroxyalkanoate copolymer by Alcaligenes
denitrificans A41.

Yajima T(1), Nagatomo M(1), Wakabayashi A(1), Sato M(1), Taguchi S(2), Maeda
M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Microbial Genetics Laboratory, Department of Agricultural Chemistry, School of
Agriculture, Meiji University, 1-1-1 Higashimita, Tama-ku, Kawsaki, Kanagawa,
214-8571, Japan.
(2)Department of Chemistry for Life Sciences and Agriculture, Faculty of Life
Sciences, Tokyo University of Agriculture, 1-1-1 Sakuragaoka, Setagaya, Tokyo,
156-8502, Japan.
(3)Microbial Genetics Laboratory, Department of Agricultural Chemistry, School of
Agriculture, Meiji University, 1-1-1 Higashimita, Tama-ku, Kawsaki, Kanagawa,
214-8571, Japan. mmaeda@meiji.ac.jp.

A polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) copolymer,
poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate) [P(3HB-co-3HV)], was biosynthesized 
from biphenyl as the sole carbon source using Alcaligenes (currently
Achromobacter) denitrificans A41. This strain is capable of degrading
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and biphenyl. This proof-of-concept of the
conversion of aromatic chemicals such as the environmental pollutant
PCBs/biphenyl to eco-friendly products such as biodegradable polyester PHA was
inspired by the uncovering of two genes encoding PHA synthases in the A.
denitrificans A41 genome. When the carbon/nitrogen (C/N) ratio was set at 21, the
cellular P(3HB-co-3HV) content in strain A41 reached its highest value of 10.1%
of the cell dry weight (CDW). A two-step cultivation protocol improved the
accumulation of P(3HB-co-3HV) by up to 26.2% of the CDW, consisting of 13.0 mol %
3HV when grown on minimum salt medium without nitrogen sources. The highest
cellular content of P(3HB-co-3HV) (47.6% of the CDW) was obtained through the
two-step cultivation of strain A41 on biphenyl as the sole carbon source. The
purified copolymer had ultra-high molecular weight (weight-average molecular
weight of 3.5 × 106), as revealed through gel-permeation chromatography. Based on
the genomic information related to both polymer synthesis and biphenyl
degradation, we finally proposed a metabolic pathway for the production of
P(3HB-co-3HV) associated with the degradation of biphenyl by strain A41.

DOI: 10.1186/s13568-020-01093-5 
PMCID: PMC7450020
PMID: 32845442 

