
1. Am J Case Rep. 2020 Jul 21;21:e923031. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.923031.

A Rare Case of Non-Prosthetic Aortic Valve Infectious Endocarditis Caused by
Achromobacter xylosoxidans.

de Castro RL(1), Lima NA(1), Lino DODC(2), Melgar TA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Western Michigan University - Homer Stryker
M.D. School of Medicine, Kalamazoo, MI, USA.
(2)Department of Cardiology, State University Of Cear√° (UECE), Fortaleza, CE,
Brazil.

BACKGROUND Achromobacter xylosoxidans is a ubiquitous environmental gram-negative
bacterium, very resistant to antibiotics. Endocarditis caused by these bacteria
is extremely rare, with only 20 cases described in the literature to our
knowledge. Mortality rates are high, and treatment usually involves a combination
of antibiotics and surgery. Nosocomial infections predominate with a strong
association between bacteremia and immunosuppression. CASE REPORT A 19-year-old
immunocompetent male presented with endocarditis He had interatrial and
interventricular communication corrected at age 11 months and aortic coarctation 
correction at age 10. Initial echocardiogram showed a possible interventricular
patch infection, which was later ruled out. He was treated initially for
endocarditis with a combination of antibiotics, but because he remained febrile
after appropriate antibiotic treatment, surgery was performed. The patient had a 
favorable outcome after surgery and was asymptomatic on follow-up. CONCLUSIONS
Endocarditis caused by A. xylosoxidans is extremely rare. To date, only 20 cases 
of IT have been reported in the literature, of which only two involved a native
valve. Given the scarcity of cases reported, there is no consensus on the best
treatment.

DOI: 10.12659/AJCR.923031 
PMCID: PMC7394555
PMID: 32747617 

