
1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2020 Aug 17. pii: AAC.01467-20. doi:
10.1128/AAC.01467-20. [Epub ahead of print]

LONGITUDINAL SURVEILLANCE AND COMBINATION ANTIMICROBIAL SUSCEPTIBILITY TESTING OF
MULTIDRUG-RESISTANT ACHROMOBACTER SPP. FROM CYSTIC FIBROSIS PATIENTS.

Okoliegbe IN(1), Hijazi K(2), Cooper K(3), Ironside C(3), Gould IM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Aberdeen, UK
ijeoma.okoliegbe@nhs.net.
(2)Institute of Dentistry, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(3)Department of Medical Microbiology, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Aberdeen, UK.

Background: Achromobacter spp. are recognized as an emerging pathogen in patients
with Cystic Fibrosis (CF). Though recent works have established species-level
identification using nrdA sequencing, there is a dearth in knowledge relating to 
species-level antimicrobial susceptibility patterns and antimicrobial
combinations which hampers the use of optimal antimicrobial combinations for the 
treatment of chronic infections. The aims of this study were i) to identify at
species-level referred Achromobacter isolates ii) to describe species-level
antimicrobial susceptibility profiles iii) to determine the most promising
antimicrobial combination for chronic Achromobacter infections.Methods: A total
of 112 multidrug-resistant (MDR) Achromobacter spp. isolates from 39 patients
were identified using nrdA sequencing. Antimicrobial susceptibility and
combination testing were carried out using the Etest method.Results: We detected 
six species of Achromobacter and found that A. xylosoxidans was the most
prevalent species. Interestingly, sequence analysis showed it was responsible for
persistent infection (18/28 patients) followed by A. ruhlandii (2/3 patients).
Piperacillin-tazobactam (70.27%) and cotrimoxazole (69.72%) were the most active 
antimicrobials. Differences were observed in species-level susceptibility to
ceftazidime, carbapenems, ticarcillin-clavulanate, and tetracycline.
Antimicrobial combinations with cotrimoxazole or tobramycin demonstrate the best 
synergy while cotrimoxazole gave the best susceptibility breakpoint Index
values.Conclusions: This study enriches the understanding of MDR Achromobacter
spp. epidemiology, confirms prevalence and chronic colonization of A.
xylosoxidans in CF lungs. It presents in vitro data to support the efficacy of
new combinations for use in the treatment of chronic Achromobacter infections.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01467-20 
PMID: 32816722 

