
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 28;8(10). pii: E1489. doi:
10.3390/microorganisms8101489.

Elimination of Extracellular Adenosine Triphosphate for the Rapid Prediction of
Quantitative Plate Counts in 24 h Time-Kill Studies against Carbapenem-Resistant 
Gram-Negative Bacteria.

Cai Y(1)(2), Ng JJ(2), Leck H(1), Teo JQ(1)(3), Goh JX(1), Lee W(1), Koh
TH(4)(5), Tan TT(6)(7), Lim TP(1)(5)(7), Kwa AL(1)(2)(7)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore 169608,
Singapore.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, National University of Singapore, Singapore 117559,
Singapore.
(3)Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore and
National University of Health System, Singapore 117549, Singapore.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore 169856,
Singapore.
(5)SingHealth Duke-NUS Medicine Pathology Clinical Programme, Singapore 169608,
Singapore.
(6)Department of Infectious Diseases, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore
169856, Singapore.
(7)SingHealth Duke-NUS Medicine Academic Clinical Programme, Singapore 169856,
Singapore.
(8)Emerging Infectious Diseases, Duke-NUS Medical School, Singapore 169857,
Singapore.

Traditional in vitro time-kill studies (TKSs) require viable plating, which is
tedious and time-consuming. We used ATP bioluminescence, with the removal of
extracellular ATP (EC-ATP), as a surrogate for viable plating in TKSs against
carbapenem-resistant Gram-negative bacteria (CR-GNB). Twenty-four-hour TKSs were 
conducted using eight clinical CR-GNB (two Escherichia coli, two Klebsiella spp.,
two Acinetobacter baumannii, two Pseudomonas aeruginosa) with multiple single and
two-antibiotic combinations. ATP bioluminescence and viable counts were
determined at each timepoint (0, 2, 4, 8, 24 h), with and without apyrase
treatment. Correlation between ATP bioluminescence and viable counts was
determined for apyrase-treated and non-apyrase-treated samples. Receiver operator
characteristic curves were plotted to determine the optimal luminescence
threshold to discriminate between inhibitory/non-inhibitory and
bactericidal/non-bactericidal combinations, compared to viable counts. After
treatment of bacteria with 2 U/mL apyrase for 15 min at 37 Â°C, correlation to
viable counts was significantly higher compared to untreated samples (p < 0.01). 
Predictive accuracies of ATP bioluminescence were also significantly higher for
apyrase-treated samples in distinguishing inhibitory (p < 0.01) and bactericidal 
(p = 0.03) combinations against CR-GNB compared to untreated samples, when all
species were collectively analyzed. We found that ATP bioluminescence can
potentially replace viable plating in TKS. Our assay also has applications in in 
vitro and in vivo infection models.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8101489 
PMID: 32998347 

