
1. Bioorg Med Chem. 2020 Aug 30;28(22):115710. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2020.115710. [Epub
ahead of print]

Analogs of nitrofuran antibiotics are potent GroEL/ES inhibitor pro-drugs.

Stevens M(1), Howe C(1), Ray AM(1), Washburn A(1), Chitre S(1), Sivinski J(2),
Park Y(3), Hoang QQ(3), Chapman E(2), Johnson SM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Indiana University School of Medicine, Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology, 635 Barnhill Dr., Indianapolis, IN 46202, United States.
(2)The University of Arizona, College of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmacology and
Toxicology, 1703 E. Mabel St., PO Box 210207, Tucson, AZ 85721, United States.
(3)Indiana University School of Medicine, Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology, 635 Barnhill Dr., Indianapolis, IN 46202, United States; Stark
Neurosciences Research Institute, Indiana University School of Medicine. 320 W.
15th Street, Suite 414, Indianapolis, IN 46202, United States; Department of
Neurology, Indiana University School of Medicine. 635 Barnhill Drive,
Indianapolis, IN 46202, United States.
(4)Indiana University School of Medicine, Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology, 635 Barnhill Dr., Indianapolis, IN 46202, United States.
Electronic address: johnstm@iu.edu.

In two previous studies, we identified compound 1 as a moderate GroEL/ES
inhibitor with weak to moderate antibacterial activity against Gram-positive and 
Gram-negative bacteria including Bacillus subtilis, methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumonia, Acinetobacter baumannii, and SM101
Escherichia coli (which has a compromised lipopolysaccharide biosynthetic pathway
making bacteria more permeable to drugs). Extending from those studies, we
developed two series of analogs with key substructures resembling those of known 
antibacterials, nitroxoline (hydroxyquinoline moiety) and
nifuroxazide/nitrofurantoin (bis-cyclic-N-acylhydrazone scaffolds). Through
biochemical and cell-based assays, we identified potent GroEL/ES inhibitors that 
selectively blocked E. faecium, S. aureus, and E. coli proliferation with low
cytotoxicity to human colon and intestine cells in vitro. Initially, only the
hydroxyquinoline-bearing analogs were found to be potent inhibitors in our
GroEL/ES-mediated substrate refolding assays; however, subsequent testing in the 
presence of an E. coli nitroreductase (NfsB) in situ indicated that metabolites
of the nitrofuran-bearing analogs were potent GroEL/ES inhibitor pro-drugs.
Consequently, this study has identified a new target of nitrofuran-containing
drugs, and is the first reported instance of such a unique class of GroEL/ES
chaperonin inhibitors. The intriguing results presented herein provide impetus
for expanded studies to validate inhibitor mechanisms and optimize this
antibacterial class using the respective GroEL/ES chaperonin systems and
nitroreductases from E. coli and the ESKAPE bacteria.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2020.115710 
PMID: 33007545 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

