
1. J Infect Chemother. 2020 May;26(5):475-482. doi: 10.1016/j.jiac.2019.12.010. Epub
2020 Jan 7.

Characteristics of invasive Acinetobacter infection: A multicenter investigation 
with molecular identification of causative organisms.

Kiyasu Y(1), Hitomi S(2), Funayama Y(3), Saito K(4), Ishikawa H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, University of Tsukuba Hospital, Japan.
Electronic address: kiyasu-tuk@umin.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, University of Tsukuba Hospital, Japan.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Tsukuba Gakuen Hospital, Japan.
(4)Department of Respiratory Diseases, Tsuchiura Kyodo General Hospital, Japan.
(5)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Tsukuba Medical Center Hospital, Japan.

We examined microbiological and clinical characteristics of invasive
Acinetobacter infection occurring in four hospitals located in the Minami-Ibaraki
Area. Glucose-non-fermentative Gram-negative bacilli isolated from the blood and 
the cerebrospinal fluid in independent cases between 2001 and 2014 were
consecutively collected and those possibly to be Acinetobacter species were
re-identified using molecular methods. Of 158 strains identified as Acinetobacter
species, 155 were classified into 16 officially designated species, including 42 
Acinetobacter pittii and 40 Acinetobacter baumannii. Imipenem non-susceptibility 
was detected only in 4 strains, none of which demonstrated multidrug resistance. 
Retrospective analyses of 154 cases for which medical records were fully
available showed that the most common cause of infection was primary bloodstream 
infection (134 cases), of which 128 were related to intravascular catheter use.
The mortality on day 28 after the onset was independently associated with
cerebrovascular disease, moderate to severe renal disease, the Pitt bacteremia
score, and infection other than primary bloodstream infection but not with
appropriate empiric antimicrobial therapy. Isolation of A. baumannii was
significantly associated with septic shock but not with the 28-day mortality.
These findings, obtained in a region where drug-resistant Acinetobacter strains
were much less prevailing, indicated that non-baumannii Acinetobacter species
were common pathogens, that the most predominant cause of invasive Acinetobacter 
infection was intravascular catheter-related infection, that virulence of
A. baumannii might be higher than those of other species but its association with
mortality was unclear, and that administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics
targeting Acinetobacter species might be deferrable in a certain situation.

Copyright © 2019 Japanese Society of Chemotherapy and The Japanese Association
for Infectious Diseases. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jiac.2019.12.010 
PMID: 31924521 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.

