
1. Huan Jing Ke Xue. 2020 May 8;41(5):2339-2348. doi: 10.13227/j.hjkx.201911201.

[Nitrogen Removal Performance and Nitrogen/Carbon Balance of Oligotrophic Aerobic
Denitrifiers].

[Article in Chinese]

Wen G(1)(2), Wang T(1)(2), Huang TL(1)(2), Wan QQ(1)(2), Cao RH(1)(2), Kou
LQ(1)(2), Yang SY(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Northwest Water Resource, Environment and Ecology, Ministry 
of Education, Xi'an University of Architecture and Technology, Xi'an 710055,
China.
(2)Shaanxi Key Laboratory of Environmental Engineering, Xi'an University of
Architecture and Technology, Xi'an 710055, China.

Due to the problems of low nitrogen removal efficiency and unclear electron
transfer during biological denitrification treatment of an oligotrophic drinking 
water reservoir, the nitrogen removal characteristics, environmental
adaptability, and electron transfer during denitrification were systematically
studied using the aerobic denitrifier Acinetobacter junii ZMF5, which has
efficient nitrogen removal ability. The results showed that:① Strain ZMF5
exhibited efficient heterotrophic nitrification and aerobic denitrification
ability, with an ammonia removal rate of 0.211 mg·(L·h)-1 and a nitrate removal
rate of 0.236 mg·(L·h)-1, and the nitrification intermediates were not
accumulated during the treatment process. ② According to analysis of the nitrogen
removal efficiency and growth kinetics of strain ZMF5, the strain can effectively
utilize different types of carbon source, and show efficient nitrogen removal
efficiency under the conditions of low C/N, low pH, and low temperature. ③
Analysis of nitrogen balance showed that carboxylate compound, compared with
carbohydrate, could promote the process of aerobic denitrification and change the
nitrogen removal pathway of strain ZMF5, i.e., 38.81% of nitrogen was transformed
into gas, higher than the 29.81% for assimilation. ④ Analysis of carbon balance
indicated that most carbon sources were used as electron donors in the
denitrification process, but fewer electrons were used for nitrate reduction, and
with respect to different carbon sources, electron transfer to the nitrate
respiratory chain was regulated by different reduction potentials, electron donor
abundance, and molecular weight. Acinetobacter junii ZMF5 could be used to
control nitrogen pollution in drinking water reservoirs.

DOI: 10.13227/j.hjkx.201911201 
PMID: 32608852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

