
1. mSystems. 2020 Sep 29;5(5). pii: e00459-20. doi: 10.1128/mSystems.00459-20.

Beneficial Chromosomal Integration of the Genes for CTX-M Extended-Spectrum
β-Lactamase in Klebsiella pneumoniae for Stable Propagation.

Yoon EJ(1)(2), Gwon B(1)(2), Liu C(1)(2), Kim D(1)(2), Won D(1), Park SG(1), Choi
JR(1), Jeong SH(3)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine,
Seoul, South Korea.
(2)Research Institute of Bacterial Resistance, Yonsei University College of
Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine,
Seoul, South Korea kscpjsh@yuhs.ac.

The acquired CTX-M-type extended-spectrum-β-lactamase (ESBL)-producing
Enterobacterales are of great concern in clinical settings because they limit
therapeutic options for patients infected by the pathogens. An intriguing
clonality of CTX-M ESBL-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae blood isolates was
observed from a national cohort study, and comparative genomics were assessed for
the 115 K. pneumoniae blood isolates carrying the bla CTX-M gene. The plasmid
preference of particular clones of a sequence type (ST) was assessed by liquid
mating. A quarter of the bla CTX-M gene-carrying K. pneumoniae blood isolates
harbor the gene in their chromosome, and most of those with the built-in bla
CTX-M gene belonged either to ST307 or ST48. Notably, all 16 K. pneumoniae ST48
isolates harbored two copies of the bla CTX-M-15 gene in the chromosome. The
chromosomal integration of the bla CTX-M-15 gene was mostly derived from the
ISEcp1-targeting 5-bp AT-rich locus in the chromosome. The IS26-mediated
chromosomal integration occurred when the upstream ISEcp1 from the bla CTX-M gene
was truncated, targeting the anchor IS26 copy in the chromosome. Higher transfer 
efficiency of the bla CTX-M-15 gene-carrying FIA:R plasmid was observed in ST17
than that of the bla CTX-M-14 gene-carrying FIB:FII plasmid. The transfer
efficiency of the plasmid differed by isolate among the ST307 members. The K.
pneumoniae clones ST307 and ST48 harboring the bla CTX-M-15 gene in the
chromosome were able to disseminate stably in clinical settings regardless of the
environmental pressure, and the current population of K. pneumoniae blood
isolates was constructed. Further follow-up is needed for the epidemiology of
this antimicrobial resistance.IMPORTANCE Dominant F-type plasmids harboring the
gene have been pointed out to be responsible for the dissemination of the CTX-M
extended-spectrum-β-lactamase (ESBL)-producing K. pneumoniae Recently, the
emergence of K. pneumoniae isolates with the bla CTX-M gene in their chromosomes 
has been reported occasionally worldwide. Such a chromosomal location of the
resistance gene could be beneficial for stable propagation, as was the
Acinetobacter baumannii ST191 harboring chromosomal bla OXA-23 that is endemic to
South Korea. Through the present study, particular clones were identified as
having built-in resistance genes in their chromosomes, and the chromosomal
integration events were tracked by assessing their genomes. The
cefotaxime-resistant K. pneumoniae clones of this study were particularized as
results of the fastidiousness for plasmids to acquire the bla CTX-M gene for
securing the diversity and of the chromosomal addiction of the bla CTX-M gene for
ensuring propagation.

Copyright © 2020 Yoon et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSystems.00459-20 
PMCID: PMC7527135
PMID: 32994286 

