
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jun 9;11:1134. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01134. eCollection
2020.

Phenotypic Variation and Carbapenem Resistance Potential in OXA-499-Producing
Acinetobacter pittii.

Zhang L(1)(2), Fu Y(2)(3), Han X(1)(2), Xu Q(1)(2), Weng S(1)(2), Yan B(4), Liu
L(1)(2), Hua X(1)(2), Chen Y(1)(2), Yu Y(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, College of
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Microbial Technology and Bioinformatics of Zhejiang
Province, Hangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, College of
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.

Acinetobacter pittii is increasingly recognized as a clinically important
species. Here, we identified a carbapenem-non-resistant A. pittii clinical
isolate, A1254, harboring bla OXA- 499, bla OXA- 826, and bla ADC- 221. The bla
OXA- 499 genetic environment in A1254 was identical to that of another
OXA-499-producing, but carbapenem-resistant, A. pittii isolate, YMC2010/8/T346,
indicating the existence of phenotypic variation among OXA-499-producing A.
pittii strains. Under imipenem-selective pressure, the A1254 isolate developed
resistance to carbapenems in 60 generations. Two carbapenem-resistant mutants
(CAB009 and CAB010) with mutations in the bla OXA- 499 promoter region were
isolated from two independently evolved populations (CAB001 and CAB004). The
CAB009 mutant, with a mutation at position -14 (A to G), exhibited a four-fold
higher carbapenem minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and a 4.53 ± 0.19 log2
fold change higher expression level of bla OXA- 499 than the ancestor strain,
A1254. The other mutant, CAB010, with a mutation at position -42 (G to A), showed
a two-fold higher carbapenem MIC and a 1.65 ± 0.25 log2 fold change higher bla
OXA- 499 expression level than the ancestor strain. The bla OXA- 499 gene and its
promoter region were amplified from the wild-type strain and two mutant isolates 
and then individually cloned into the pYMAb2-Hyg r vector and expressed in
Acinetobacter baumannii ATCC 17978, A. pittii LMG 1035, and A. pittii A1254. All 
the transformed strains were resistant to carbapenem, irrespective of whether
they harbored the initial or an evolved promoter sequence, and transformed
strains expressing the promoter from the most resistant mutant, CAB009, showed
the highest carbapenem MICs, with values of 32-64 μg/ml for imipenem and 128
μg/ml for meropenem. RNA sequencing was performed to confirm the contribution of 
bla OXA- 499 to the development of carbapenem resistance. Although the CAB009 and
CAB010 transcriptional patterns were different, bla OXA- 499 was the only
differentially expressed gene shared by the two mutants. Our results indicate
that carbapenem-non-resistant Acinetobacter spp. strains carrying bla OXA genes
have the potential to develop carbapenem resistance and need to be further
investigated and monitored to prevent treatment failure due to the development of
resistance.

Copyright © 2020 Zhang, Fu, Han, Xu, Weng, Yan, Liu, Hua, Chen and Yu.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01134 
PMCID: PMC7296048
PMID: 32582088 

