
1. Plasmid. 2020 Jul;110:102505. doi: 10.1016/j.plasmid.2020.102505. Epub 2020 May
4.

Plasmidome of an environmental Acinetobacter lwoffii strain originating from a
former gold and arsenic mine.

Walter T(1), Klim J(1), Jurkowski M(1), Gawor J(1), Köhling I(1), Słodownik M(1),
Zielenkiewicz U(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics PAS, Pawińskiego 5a Str., 02-106
Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics PAS, Pawińskiego 5a Str., 02-106
Warsaw, Poland. Electronic address: ulazet@ibb.waw.pl.

Emerging important Acinetobacter strains commonly accommodate a plethora of
mobile elements including plasmids of different size. Plasmids, apart from
encoding modules enabling their self-replication and/or transmission, can carry a
diverse number of genes, allowing the host cell to survive in an environment that
would otherwise be lethal or restrictive for growth. The present study
characterizes the plasmidome generated from an arsenic-resistant strain named
ZS207, classified as Acinetobacter lwoffii. Sequencing effort revealed the
presence of nine plasmids in the size between 4.3 and 38.4 kb as well as one
186.6 kb megaplasmid. All plasmids, except the megaplasmid, do apparently not
confer distinguishing phenotypic features. In contrast, the megaplasmid carries
arsenic and heavy metals resistance regions similar to those found in permafrost 
A. lwoffii strains. In-depth in silico analyses have shown a significant
similarity between the regions from these plasmids, especially concerning
multiple transposable elements, transfer and mobilization genes, and
toxin-antitoxin systems. Since ars genes encode proteins of major significance in
terms of potential use in bioremediation, arsenic resistance level of ZS207 was
determined and the functionality of selected ars genes was examined.
Additionally, we checked the functionality of plasmid-encoded toxin-antitoxin
systems and their impact on the formation of persister cells.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plasmid.2020.102505 
PMID: 32380021 

