
1. AMB Express. 2020 Jul 10;10(1):124. doi: 10.1186/s13568-020-01058-8.

Structure and diversity of native bacterial communities in soils contaminated
with polychlorinated biphenyls.

Zenteno-Rojas A(1), Martínez-Romero E(2), Castañeda-Valbuena D(1), Rincón-Molina 
CI(1), Ruíz-Valdiviezo VM(1), Meza-Gordillo R(1), Villalobos-Maldonado JJ(1),
Vences-Guzmán MÁ(2), Rincón-Rosales R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Tecnológico Nacional de México/IT de Tuxtla Gutiérrez, Carretera Panamericana 
Km, 1080, CP 29050, Tuxtla Gutiérrez, Chiapas, Mexico.
(2)Centro de Ciencias Genómicas, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Av,
Universidad s/n, Col. Chamilpa, 62210, Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico.
(3)Tecnológico Nacional de México/IT de Tuxtla Gutiérrez, Carretera Panamericana 
Km, 1080, CP 29050, Tuxtla Gutiérrez, Chiapas, Mexico. reriro61@hotmail.com.

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are
a group of high-risk synthetic substances for human and environmental health.
Currently, the study of sites contaminated by the spillage of equipment PCBs
containing have been considered targeted areas for the study of bacterial
communities with potential for PCBs degradation. There in isolation of bacterial 
strains is vital for use in biodegradable processes, such as bacterial
bioaugmentation, which accelerates the development of phenomena such as natural
attenuation of contaminated sites. The objective of this study was to assess
biodiversity of bacteria contained in anthropogenic contaminated soils (HS and
HP) with PCBs compared to a control sample without contaminant and the modified
forest (F) and agricultural (A) soil in the laboratory with 100 mg L-1 PCB. For
the analysis of 16S rRNA genes amplified from DNA extracted from the soils
evaluated, the latest generation of Illumina Miseq and Sanger sequencing for the 
cultivable strains were detected. The bacteria identified as the most abundant
bacterial phyla for HS and HP soil was Proteobacteria (56.7%) and Firmicutes
(22.9%), which decreased in F and A soils. The most abundant bacterial genera
were Burkholderia, Bacillus, Acinetobacter, Comamonas and Cupriavidus. Several
species identified in this study, such as Bacillus cereus, Burkholderia cepacia, 
Comamonas testosteroni and Acinetobacter pittii have been reported as PCBs
degraders. Finally, by means of a principal component analysis (PCA), a
correlation between the physical and chemical characteristics of the soils in
relation to the relative abundances of the bacteria identified was obtained. The 
C/N ratio was directly related to the control soil (without contaminant), while
SOM maintained a relationship with F and A soils and the bacterial abundances
were directly related to Hs and Hp soils due to the presence of aroclor 1260.
Bacteria with the ability to tolerate high concentrations of this pollutant are
considered for future use in biostimulation and bioaugmentation processes in
contaminated soils.

DOI: 10.1186/s13568-020-01058-8 
PMCID: PMC7351888
PMID: 32651884 

