
1. J Environ Sci Health A Tox Hazard Subst Environ Eng. 2020;55(4):333-344. doi:
10.1080/10934529.2019.1694816. Epub 2019 Dec 1.

Isolation, characterization and growth kinetics of phenol hyper-tolerant bacteria
from sewage-fed aquaculture system.

Nandi L(1), Panigrahi AK(1), Maitra N(2), Chattopadhyay AP(1), Manna SK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Kalyani, Kalyani, West Bengal, India.
(2)India FREM Division, ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute,
Kolkata, West Bengal, India.

Pollution of aquatic resources is increasing day-by-day, and phenolic compounds
are common pollutants negatively impacting aquatic biodiversity and production.
This study aimed at isolation of phenol hyper-tolerant bacteria from polluted
aquaculture resource so that they might be useful in aquaculture systems. Four
phenol hyper-tolerant bacterial strains were isolated from sewage fed East
Kolkata Wetlands, a Ramsar site. By 16S rDNA sequence, cell morphology and
biochemical characteristics the strains PDB2, PDB13, PDB16, and PDB26 were
identified as Acinetobacter sp., Acinetobacter junii, Pseudomonas citronellolis, 
and Bacillus cereus, respectively. Pseudomonas citronellolis strain PDB16,
described in this study, is possibly the first report of phenol hyper-tolerant
strain in this species. All the four strains degraded 600 mg L-1 phenol within
5 days and expressed catechol 1,2-dioxygenase but lacked catechol 2,3-dioxygenase
enzyme suggesting that the bacteria used the ortho-cleavage pathway for phenol
degradation. In growth kinetic study Edwards and Aiba model, rather than the most
popular Haldane model, gave the best fit indicating behavioral divergence of
these strains with those from petroleum contaminated environments. The phenol
degrading bacteria isolated from a polluted sewage fed aquaculture system might
be useful in degradation and remediation of polluted aquaculture resources as
well as inland open waters.

DOI: 10.1080/10934529.2019.1694816 
PMID: 31790335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

