
1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2020 Apr 21;64(5). pii: e02502-19. doi:
10.1128/AAC.02502-19. Print 2020 Apr 21.

Co-occurrence of Plasmid-Mediated Tigecycline and Carbapenem Resistance in
Acinetobacter spp. from Waterfowls and Their Neighboring Environment.

Cui CY(#)(1)(2), Chen C(#)(1)(2), Liu BT(#)(3), He Q(1)(2), Wu XT(1)(2), Sun
RY(1)(2), Zhang Y(1)(2), Cui ZH(1)(2), Guo WY(1)(2), Jia QL(1)(2), Li C(1)(2),
Kreiswirth BN(4), Liao XP(1)(2)(5), Chen L(4), Liu YH(1)(2)(5), Sun J(6)(2)(5).

Author information: 
(1)National Risk Assessment Laboratory for Antimicrobial Resistance of Animal
Original Bacteria, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern Agriculture, Guangzhou, Guangdong,
China.
(3)College of Veterinary Medicine, Qingdao Agricultural University, Qingdao,
China.
(4)Hackensack-Meridian Health Center for Discovery and Innovation, Nutley, New
Jersey, USA.
(5)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Veterinary Pharmaceutics Development
and Safety Evaluation, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, China.
(6)National Risk Assessment Laboratory for Antimicrobial Resistance of Animal
Original Bacteria, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, China
jiansun@scau.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Tigecycline serves as one of the antibiotics of last resort to treat
multidrug-resistant (including carbapenem-resistant) pathogens. However, the
recently emerged plasmid-mediated tigecycline resistance mechanism, Tet(X),
challenges the clinical efficacy of this class of antibiotics. In this study, we 
detected 180 tet(X)-harboring Acinetobacter isolates (8.9%, n = 180) from 2,018
samples collected from avian farms and adjacent environments in China. Eighteen
tet(X)-harboring isolates (10.0%) were found to cocarry the carbapenemase gene
bla NDM-1, mostly from waterfowl samples (94.4%, 17/18). Interestingly, among six
Acinetobacter strains, tet(X) and bla NDM-1 were found to colocalize on the same 
plasmids. Moreover, whole-genome sequencing (WGS) revealed a novel orthologue of 
tet(X) in the six isolates coharboring tet(X) and bla NDM-1 Inverse PCR suggested
that the two tet(X) genes form a single transposable unit and may be
cotransferred. Sequence comparison between six tet(X)- and bla NDM-1-coharboring 
plasmids showed that they shared a highly homologous plasmid backbone even though
they were isolated from different Acinetobacter species (three from Acinetobacter
indicus, two from Acinetobacter schindleri, and one from Acinetobacter lwoffii)
from various sources and from different geological regions, suggesting the
horizontal genetic transfer of a common tet(X)- and bla NDM-1-coharboring plasmid
among Acinetobacter species in China. Emergence and spread of such plasmids and
strains are of great clinical concern, and measures must be implemented to avoid 
their dissemination.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.02502-19 
PMCID: PMC7179582 [Available on 2020-10-21]
PMID: 32122894 

