
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Feb 19;10(1):2969. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-59938-9.

Abundance of mobile genetic elements in an Acinetobacter lwoffii strain isolated 
from Transylvanian honey sample.

Veress A(1), Nagy T(1), Wilk T(1), Kömüves J(1), Olasz F(1), Kiss J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Agricultural Biotechnology Institute, National
Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre, Gödöllő, H-2100, Hungary.
(2)Department of Genetics, Agricultural Biotechnology Institute, National
Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre, Gödöllő, H-2100, Hungary.
kiss.janos@abc.naik.hu.

Based on phylogenetic analyses, strain M2a isolated from honey, an unexpected
source of acinetobacters, was classified as Acinetobacter lwoffii. The genome of 
this strain is strikingly crowded with mobile genetic elements. It harbours more 
than 250 IS elements of 15 IS-families, several unit and compound transposons and
15 different plasmids. These IS elements, including 30 newly identified ones,
could be classified into at least 53 IS species. Regarding the plasmids, 13 of
the 15 belong to the Rep-3 superfamily and only one plasmid, belonging to the
"Low-GC" family, possesses a seemingly complete conjugative system. The other
plasmids, with one exception, have a mobilization region of common pattern,
consisting of the divergent mobA/mobL-family and mobS-, mobC- or traD-like genes 
separated by an oriT-like sequence. Although two plasmids of M2a are almost
identical to those of A. lwoffi strains isolated from gold mine or Pleistocene
sediments, most of them have no close relatives. The presence of numerous
plasmid-borne and chromosomal metal resistance determinants suggests that M2a
previously has also evolved in a metal-polluted environment. The numerous,
possibly transferable, plasmids and the outstanding number of transposable
elements may reflect the high potential of M2a for rapid evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-59938-9 
PMCID: PMC7031236
PMID: 32076091 

