
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Sep 30;10(1):16154. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-73123-y.

Genomic analysis reveals high virulence and antibiotic resistance amongst phage
susceptible Acinetobacter baumannii.

Leungtongkam U(1), Thummeepak R(1), Kitti T(2), Tasanapak K(1), Wongwigkarn J(1),
Styles KM(3), Wellington EMH(3), Millard AD(4), Sagona AP(3), Sitthisak S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Parasitology, Faculty of Medical Science,
Naresuan University, Phitsanulok, 65000, Thailand.
(2)Faculty of Oriental Medicine, Chiang Rai College, Chiang Rai, 57000, Thailand.
(3)School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK.
(4)Department of Genetics and Genome Biology, University of Leicester, Leicester,
LE1 7RH, UK.
(5)Department of Microbiology and Parasitology, Faculty of Medical Science,
Naresuan University, Phitsanulok, 65000, Thailand. sutthirats@nu.ac.th.

In this study, we examined the association between antimicrobial resistance,
CRISPR/Cas systems and virulence with phage susceptibility in Acinetobacter
baumannii and investigated draft genomes of phage susceptible multidrug resistant
A. baumannii strains from Thailand. We investigated 230 A. baumannii strains
using 17 lytic A. baumannii phages and the phage susceptibility was 46.5%
(107/230). Phage susceptibility was also associated with resistance to numerous
antibiotics (p-value < 0.05). We also found association between biofilm formation
and the presence of ompA gene among phage susceptible A. baumannii strains
(p-value < 0.05). A. baumannii isolates carrying cas5 or combinations of two or
three other cas genes, showed a significant increase in phage resistance.
Whole-genome sequences of seven phage susceptible A. baumannii isolates revealed 
that six groups of antibiotic resistance genes were carried by all seven phage
susceptible A. baumannii. All strains carried biofilm associated genes and two
strains harbored complete prophages, acquired copper tolerance genes, and
CRISPR-associated (cas) genes. In conclusion, our data exhibits an association
between virulence determinants and biofilm formation among phage susceptible A.
baumannii strains. These data help to understand the bacterial co-evolution with 
phages.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-73123-y 
PMCID: PMC7528101
PMID: 32999368 

