
1. Microorganisms. 2019 Nov 10;7(11). pii: E549. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms7110549.

Acinetobacter Strain KUO11TH, a Unique Organism Related to Acinetobacter pittii
and Isolated from the Skin Mucus of Healthy Bighead Catfish and Its Efficacy
Against Several Fish Pathogens.

Bunnoy A(1), Na-Nakorn U(2), Kayansamruaj P(1), Srisapoome P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Aquatic Animal Health Management, Department of Aquaculture,
Faculty of Fisheries, Kasetsart University, 50 Paholayothin Rd, Ladyao,
Chatuchak, Bangkok 10900, Thailand.
(2)Laboratory of Aquatic Animal Genetics, Department of Aquaculture, Faculty of
Fisheries, Kasetsart University, 50 Paholayothin Rd, Ladyao, Chatuchak, Bangkok
10900, Thailand.

The bacterial strain KU011TH was isolated from the skin mucus of healthy bighead 
catfish. The strain is a Gram-negative coccobacillus that is nonmotile, aerobic, 
catalase positive, oxidase negative, and nonhemolytic. Sequence analyses of the
housekeeping genes 16S rRNA, gyrB and rpoB indicate that this strain is a new
member of the Acb complex of the genus Acinetobacter and is closely related to
Acinetobacter pittii and Acinetobacter lactucae. In addition, the genome
relatedness-associated ANIb (<95-96%) and in silico DDH (<70%) values clearly
supported the new member of the genus Acinetobacter and the Acb complex. The
genome of the strain KU011TH was approximately 3.79 Mbp in size, comprising 3619 
predicted genes, and the DNA G+C content was 38.56 mol%. The major cellular fatty
acids were C18:1ω9c, C16:0, C16:1, C20:2, C18:2ω6c and C18:1ω9t. The whole-genome
sequences and phenotypic, phylogenetic, and chemotaxonomic data clearly support
the classification of the strain KU011TH as a new member in the genus
Acinetobacter which is closest to A. pittii. Additionally, the new bacterial
strain exhibited strong activity against a broad range of freshwater fish
pathogens in vitro.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms7110549 
PMCID: PMC6920915
PMID: 31717696 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to
publish the results.

