
1. AMB Express. 2020 Jun 3;10(1):106. doi: 10.1186/s13568-020-01043-1.

Characterization of deltamethrin degradation and metabolic pathway by co-culture 
of Acinetobacter junii LH-1-1 and Klebsiella pneumoniae BPBA052.

Tang J(1), Hu Q(2), Lei D(2), Wu M(2), Zeng C(2), Zhang Q(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Food Biotechnology, School of Food and Biotechnology, Xihua 
University, Chengdu, 610039, Sichuan, People's Republic of China.
wendyjiejie@tom.com.
(2)Key Laboratory of Food Biotechnology, School of Food and Biotechnology, Xihua 
University, Chengdu, 610039, Sichuan, People's Republic of China.

Deltamethrin and its major metabolite 3-phenoxybenzoic acid (3-PBA) have caused
serious threat to the environment as well as human health, yet little is known
about their degradation pathways by bacterial co-cultures. In this study, the
growth and degradation kinetics of Acinetobacter junii LH-1-1 and Klebsiella
pneumoniae BPBA052 during deltamethrin and 3-PBA degradation were established,
respectively. When the inoculum proportion of the strains LH-1-1 and BPBA052 was 
7.5:2.5, and LH-1-1 was inoculated 24 h before inoculation of strain BPBA052,
94.25% deltamethrin was degraded and 9.16 mg/L of 3-PBA remained within 72 h,
which was 20.36% higher and 10.25 mg/L lesser than that in monoculture of LH-1-1,
respectively. And the half-life of deltamethrin was shortened from 38.40 h to
24.58 h. Based on gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, 3-phenoxybenzaldehyde,
1,2-benzenedicarboxylic butyl dacyl ester, and phenol were identified as
metabolites during deltamethrin degradation in co-culture. This is the first time
that a co-culture degradation pathway of deltamethrin has been proposed based on 
these identified metabolites. Bioremediation of deltamethrin-contaminated soils
with co-culture of strains LH-1-1 and BPBA052 significantly enhanced deltamethrin
degradation and 3-PBA removal. This study provides a platform for further studies
on deltamethrin and 3-PBA biodegradation mechanism in co-culture, and it also
proposes a promising approach for efficient bioremediation of environment
contaminated by pyrethroid pesticides and their associated metabolites.

DOI: 10.1186/s13568-020-01043-1 
PMCID: PMC7270285
PMID: 32495133 

