
1. Microb Drug Resist. 2020 Sep 29. doi: 10.1089/mdr.2020.0130. [Epub ahead of
print]

Oxacillinase Gene Distribution, Antibiotic Resistance, and Their Correlation with
Biofilm Formation in Acinetobacter baumannii Bloodstream Isolates.

Özkul C(1), Hazırolan G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Microbiology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Faculty of
Medicine, Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey.
(2)Department of Medical Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Hacettepe University,
Ankara, Turkey.

Objectives: The limitations of treatment options in bloodstream infections caused
by multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii (MDRAB) have been related to high 
morbidity and mortality. The aim of our present study was to determine
antimicrobial susceptibility profiles, molecular resistance patterns, and biofilm
properties of A. baumannii isolated from bloodstream infections. Materials and
Methods: In the present study, a total of 44 A. baumannii bloodstream isolates
were included. Antimicrobial susceptibility profiles and biofilm formation
ability were assessed. The distribution of class D carbapenemases, ISAba1,
ISAba1/blaOXA-23, blaNDM-1, mcr-1, and ompA was investigated by polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR). Arbitrarily primed-PCR (AP-PCR) was performed to evaluate clonal 
relationships. Results: A total of 32 isolates were MDRAB, whereas 6 isolates
were also resistant to colistin without mcr-1 positivity. All isolates were
harboring blaOXA-51 gene, whereas blaOXA-23 positivity was 63.6%. Fifty percent
of the isolates had ISAba1. ISAba1 upstream of blaOXA-23 was determined in 18
isolates. None of the isolates were positive for blaNDM-1 gene. Majority of the
strains were strong biofilm producers (86.8%). A total of 56.8% of the isolates
were positive for ompA gene with no direct association with strong biofilm
formation. However, blaOXA-51 + 23 genotype and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole
resistance showed a significant relationship with biofilm formation. AP-PCR
analysis revealed six distinct clusters of A. baumannii. Conclusions: Herein,
majority of the A. baumannii blood isolates were characterized as
blaOXA-51+OXA-23 carbapenemase genotype and were strong biofilm formers. None of 
the isolates were positive for blaNDM-1, which was promising. Resistant isolates 
were tended to form strong biofilms. Our results highlight the emergence of
oxacillinase-producing MDRAB isolated from bloodstream with high biofilm
formation ability.

DOI: 10.1089/mdr.2020.0130 
PMID: 32991256 

