
1. Infect Drug Resist. 2020 Apr 16;13:1105-1110. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S246697.
eCollection 2020.

An NDM-1-Producing Acinetobacter towneri Isolate from Hospital Sewage in China.

Wang K(#)(1)(2), Li P(#)(1)(2), Li J(#)(2), Hu X(#)(2), Lin Y(1)(2), Yang
L(1)(2), Qiu S(2), Ma H(#)(3), Li P(2), Song H(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Military Medicine, Academy of Military Sciences, Beijing, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Center for Disease Control and Prevention of PLA, Beijing, People's Republic
of China.
(3)The Sixth Medical Center of PLA General Hospital, Beijing, People's Republic
of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Background: The New Delhi metallo-β-lactamase-1 (NDM-1)-positive plasmid and its 
variants pose daunting threats to public health. Hospital sewage was considered
as an important reservoir of antibiotic genes. Numerous and diverse taxa of
multidrug-resistant (MDR) bacteria carrying NDM-1-positive plasmids have been
identified during routine surveillance of hospital sewage. We herein report a
carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter towneri strain AeBJ009 with an NDM-1-positive 
plasmid isolated from hospital sewage.
Materials and Methods: Bacteria were isolated from cultures of hospital sewage
and identified by using the Vitek 2 compact system and 16S rRNA sequencing. The
bla NDM-1 gene was amplified and confirmed by sequencing. Antimicrobial
susceptibility testing was performed using AST-GN14 on the Vitek2 compact system.
In addition, the bla NDM-1 gene was located by Southern blotting. Conjugation
experiment and whole-genome sequencing were performed for further analysis.
Results: Strain AeBJ009 was isolated from hospital sewage and identified as A.
towneri. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing revealed an MDR phenotype.
Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and Southern blotting showed that strain AeBJ009
carries three plasmids and that bla NDM-1 is located on the 47kb plasmid
pNDM-AeBJ009. However, the conjugation experiment to transfer pNDM-AeBJ009 to
Escherichia coli strain J53 was unsuccessful. Whole-genome sequencing found that 
pNDM-AeBJ009 contains a Tn125 element carrying bla NDM-1 . The ble gene
downstream of bla NDM-1 displayed a single-nucleotide polymorphism compared to
its homologue on plasmid pM131_NDM1. BLAST analysis using the Comprehensive
Antibiotic Resistance Database identified no gene polymorphisms with 100%
identity to our ble variant.
Conclusion: The A. towneri strain AeBJ009 exhibiting an extended spectrum of
antibiotic resistance was isolated from hospital sewage and may potentially
exacerbate the risk of MDR bacterial infections. The prevention of nosocomial
infections due to drug-resistant bacteria will require enhanced monitoring and
control of MDR pathogens in environmental reservoirs.

© 2020 Wang et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S246697 
PMCID: PMC7170623
PMID: 32368101 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in
this work.

