
1. Environ Technol. 2020 Feb;41(6):764-776. doi: 10.1080/09593330.2018.1510433. Epub
2018 Aug 22.

A hybrid process for 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid herbicidal treatment and its
microbial identification by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry.

Okcu GD(1), Okten HE(2), Yalcuk A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Engineering, Abant Izzet Baysal University, Bolu, 
Turkey.
(2)Department of Environmental Engineering, Izmir Institute of Technology, Urla, 
Izmir, Turkey.

The feasibility of coupling photocatalysis and a biological treatment to remove a
herbicide - 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D) - from pure water was
examined using batch experiments following three protocols: aerated (A-BR) and
non-aerated biodegradation (NA-BR) alone, and intimately combined
photodegradation and biodegradation (P-B). In view of a subsequent biological
treatment, 15 and 180 min irradiation times were chosen in accordance with
spectrophotometric and LC-MS/MS results that indicated the decrease in the
COD/TOC ratio during photocatalysis. Pre-treatment led to a quick decrease in
concentration of 2,4-D and COD during the biological process: a 78.79 ± 0.30% COD
removal and 38.23 ± 3.12% 2,4-D elimination was measured after 5760 min in A-BR, 
and 80.89 ± 0.81% COD and 81.36 ± 1.37% 2,4-D removal was achieved after 2880 min
in P-B. For species identification using matrix-assisted laser
desorption/ionization (MALDI)-time of flight (TOF)-TOF/MS equipment, Aeromonas
eucrenophila, Stenotrophomonas acidaminiphila, Ralstonia pickettii,
Sphingobacterium multivorum and Acinetobacter towneri were identified with high
accuracy, and they play important roles in the degradation of 2,4-D.

DOI: 10.1080/09593330.2018.1510433 
PMID: 30092741  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

