
1. Klin Lab Diagn. 2020;65(4):244-250. doi: 10.18821/0869-2084-2020-65-4-244-250.

[Antimicrobial activity of dioxidine and a dioxidin-containing preparation
«Nosolin-Ultra, nasal drops».]

[Article in Russian]

Detysheva EV(1), Fursova NK(1), Korovkin SA(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Research Center for Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology, Obolensk,
Moscow region, Russia.
(2)CJSC «FIRN-M», Obolensk, Moscow region, Russia.

The study is devoted to the study of the antimicrobial activity of the
antioxidant dioxidin and the complex dioxin-containing preparation Nosolin-ultra,
nasal drops against planktonic and biofilm cultures of pathogens of ENT
infections, the dynamics of the formation of microbial resistance to dioxidine.
11 reference strains and 9 clinical strains of microorganisms were used in the
study: Streptococcus spp., Staphylococcus spp., Micrococcus luteus, Haemophilus
influenzae, Acinetobacter pittii, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis,
Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The antimicrobial activity of preparations against
planktonic cultures was determined by serial dilution in broth and spot method on
solid nutrient media, against biofilms by the applicator method. The dynamics of 
dioxidine resistance formation was studied by passaging cultures in a liquid
nutrient medium with increasing concentrations of antiseptic. Based on the study,
it was found that Dioxidin showed antimicrobial activity against plankton cells
of all strains (MBC=0.08-5 mg/ml), except S. pyogenes SN345 (MBC>5 mg/ml),
inhibited the growth of formed biofilms (MBC=0.08-2.5 mg/ml) of all strains
except S. pyogenes SN345 (MBC>5 mg/ml). The drug «Nosolin-ultra, nasal drops» was
highly active against plankton cells (MBC=0.04-0.63 mg/ml) and biofilms
(MBC=0.02-0.31 mg/ml) of gram-negative bacteria, except A. pittii (MBC>2.5
mg/ml), less active against plankton cells (MBC=1.25-2.5 mg/ml) and biofilms
(MBC=0.02-0.31 mg/ml) of gram-positive bacteria and C. albicans. One strain (S.
aureus) formed a variant resistant to dioxidine at a concentration of 20 mg/ml,
which exceeded the concentration of dioxidine in the complex preparation; other
strains (P. aeruginosa, K. pneumoniae, C. albicans) did not form such variants.
The data obtained indicate that the drug «Nosolin-ultra, nasal drops» can be
effectively used against most pathogens of ENT infections. It is worth noting
that with prolonged use of the drug for some types of ENT pathogens in the
future, a slight decrease in effectiveness may be noted.

DOI: 10.18821/0869-2084-2020-65-4-244-250 
PMID: 32227731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

