
1. J Infect Chemother. 2020 Feb;26(2):308-311. doi: 10.1016/j.jiac.2019.09.018. Epub
2019 Nov 1.

Patient with liver cirrhosis presenting with necrotizing fasciitis due to
Acinetobacter junii: A case report and literature review.

Yamamuro R(1), Hosokawa N(2), Katayama M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Disease, Kameda Medical Center, 929 Higashi-cho,
Kamogawa Chiba, 296-8602, Japan. Electronic address: yamamuro.ryosuke@kameda.jp.
(2)Department of Infectious Disease, Kameda Medical Center, 929 Higashi-cho,
Kamogawa Chiba, 296-8602, Japan.
(3)Department of General Internal Medicine, Kameda Medical Center, 929
Higashi-cho, Kamogawa Chiba, 296-8602, Japan.

Acinetobacter spp. are known to be a cause of nosocomial infections and to have
diverse mechanisms of resistance to antimicrobials. Here, we report the case of a
patient who presented to our emergency department with necrotizing fasciitis due 
to Acinetobacter junii as confirmed by Matrix-Assisted Laser
Desorption/Ionization Time-of-Flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). Patients
with liver cirrhosis are susceptible to gram-negative infection. Moreover,
although Acinetobacter spp. infection is best known to be a cause of
combat-related-skin and soft-tissue infections, we propose that medical
professionals need to consider the presence of these potentially
multi-drug-resistant, gram-negative pathogens when treating patients with liver
cirrhosis who present with severe soft-tissue infections. To our knowledge, this 
is the first case report of severe-skin and soft-tissue infections caused by
A. junii.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jiac.2019.09.018 
PMID: 31680035 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest On behalf of
all authors, the corresponding author states that there is no conflict of
interest to declare.

