
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Jul;77(7):1262-1270. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-01936-1. Epub
2020 Mar 3.

Bioreduction of Cr(VI) by Indigenously Isolated Bacterial Strains from Stream
Sediment Contaminated with Tannery Waste.

da Silveira LF(1), Viscardi M(1), Longoni L(2), Sampaio J(2), Lisboa B(2),
Beneduzi A(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)La Salle University, 2288 Vítor Barreto Avenue., Canoas, Brazil.
(2)Department of Agricultural Diagnosis and Research of Secretariat of
Agriculture of Rio Grande Do Sul, 570 Gonçalves Dias Street., Porto Alegre,
Brazil.
(3)La Salle University, 2288 Vítor Barreto Avenue., Canoas, Brazil.
anebeneduzi@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Agricultural Diagnosis and Research of Secretariat of
Agriculture of Rio Grande Do Sul, 570 Gonçalves Dias Street., Porto Alegre,
Brazil. anebeneduzi@gmail.com.

The potential of indigenously isolated bacteria from the Estância Velha stream to
reduce Cr(VI) was evaluated and also the chromium contamination over the past ten
years was verified in one of the most important industrial centers of Brazil, the
"Brazilian Capital of Tanneries," Estância Velha municipality in the Rio Grande
do Sul State, South Brazil. Samples were collected from the Estância Velha stream
at the source (P1), as well as at upstream (P2) and downstream (P3) of the most
demographically area. The bacterial strains reduced between 52.5 and 61.6% of
250 mg L-1 Cr(VI) in 48 h. The genus Acinetobacter was the most abundant and
could efficiently reduce 500 mg L-1 of Cr(VI); for example, P2.8 and P2.9 strains
of Acinetobacter ursingii reduced 21.3 and 24.5% of 500 mg L-1 of Cr(VI),
respectively, after 48 h. Moreover, an analysis of Cr levels in the stream
sediment reported up to 3594 mg. L-1 of total Cr and up to 138 mg. L-1 of Cr(VI) 
in 2009. Acinetobacter strains were identified as the most abundant and efficient
in reducing Cr(VI), makes them an ideal candidate for cleaning environments
contaminated with tannery effluents, an approach that is more cost-effective than
the traditional methods.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-01936-1 
PMID: 32128606 

