
1. Infect Genet Evol. 2020 Sep 29:104577. doi: 10.1016/j.meegid.2020.104577. [Epub
ahead of print]

PmrB mutations including a novel 10-amino acid repeat sequence insertion
associated with low-level colistin resistance in carbapenem-resistant
Acinetobacter baumannii.

Lunha K(1), Thet KT(1), Ngudsuntia A(1), Charoensri N(1), Lulitanond A(1),
Tavichakorntrakool R(1), Wonglakorn L(2), Faksri K(3), Chanawong A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research and Development of Medical Diagnostic Laboratories (CMDL),
Faculty of Associated Medical Sciences, Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen 40002,
Thailand.
(2)Clinical Microbiology Laboratory, Srinagarind Hospital, Faculty of Medicine,
Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen 40002, Thailand.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Khon Kaen University, Khon
Kaen 40002, Thailand.
(4)Centre for Research and Development of Medical Diagnostic Laboratories (CMDL),
Faculty of Associated Medical Sciences, Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen 40002,
Thailand. Electronic address: aroonwad@kku.ac.th.

The global emergence of colistin resistance in carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter
baumannii (CRAB) clinical isolates is a serious public health concern. We
therefore aimed to investigate colistin resistance mechanisms in 5
colistin-resistant (COL-R) CRAB isolates collected from Thai patients in 2016 by 
whole genome sequencing (WGS) compared with those of 5 colistin-intermediate
(COL-I) CRAB isolates from the same period. All isolates were subjected to
antimicrobial susceptibility testing, efflux pump inhibitor-based test and WGS.
Mutations in known genes associated with colistin resistance were analyzed and
deleterious mutations were then predicted by PROVEAN tool. The 10 CRAB isolates
carried blaOXA-23 with the addition of blaOXA-58 in 1 isolate. All COL-R isolates
exhibited colistin MICs of 4 μg/mL except for 1 isolate with that of 16 μg/mL.
They belonged to ST2, ST16, ST23, ST164 and ST215, whereas the COL-I isolates
with colistin MICs of ≤0.25-1 μg/mL were ST2, ST164 and ST215. Neither increased 
efflux pump activity nor mcr gene was found in any COL-R isolate. Three COL-R
isolates contained different PmrB variants: a novel 10-amino acid (aa) repeat
sequence insertion, VILGCILIFS between positions 27 and 28 (S27_A28insVILGCILIFS)
in transmembrane domain (TM); a 1-aa insertion, alanine between positions 162 and
163 (A162_I163insA) in TM; and a 1-aa substitution, A226T in histidine kinase
domain. One COL-R isolate possessed PmrA variant with A80V substitution. These
alterations were predicted as deleterious. Mechanisms of colistin resistance in
the remaining COL-R isolate were still unknown. In conclusion, the alterations in
both PmrB and PmrA were predicted and suggested as initial mutations responsible 
for low-level colistin resistance in our CRAB isolates. Under selective pressure,
these isolates may exhibit higher level colistin resistance by the additional
mutations, leading to more therapeutic difficulties.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meegid.2020.104577 
PMID: 33007498 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare no competing financial interests.

