
1. J Chemother. 2020 Sep 2:1-13. doi: 10.1080/1120009X.2020.1812804. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Infective endocarditis by Acinetobacter species: a systematic review.

Ioannou P(1), Mavrikaki V(1), Kofteridis DP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine & Infectious Diseases, University Hospital of 
Heraklion, Heraklion, Crete, Greece.

A. baumannii - A. calcoaceticus complex infections are increasingly frequent,
especially in intensive care units. Such infections are associated with a
mortality that can be as high as 62%. On the other hand, infective endocarditis
(IE) is an uncommon disease with notable morbidity and mortality. Even though IE 
is rarely caused by Acinetobacter species, these infections can be particularly
problematic due to increasing antimicrobial resistance. The purpose of this study
was to systemically review all published cases of IE by Acinetobacter species in 
the literature. A systematic review of PubMed, Scopus and Cochrane library
(through 25 April 2020) for studies providing epidemiological, clinical,
microbiological as well as treatment data and outcomes of IE by Acinetobacter
species was performed. A total of 35 studies, containing data of 37 patients,
were included. A prosthetic valve was present in 40.5%, while the most common
causative pathogen was A. baumannii - A. calcoaceticus complex, followed by A.
lwoffii. Aortic valve was the commonest infected site, followed by mitral valve. 
Diagnosis was set with transthoracic echocardiography in 48.6%, while the
diagnosis was set at autopsy in 20%. Fever and sepsis were the commonest clinical
presentations, followed by heart failure and embolic phenomena. Aminoglycosides, 
cephalosporins and carbapenems were the commonest antimicrobials used. Clinical
cure was noted in 70.3%, while overall mortality was 32.4%. Development of heart 
failure was independently associated with mortality by IE. This systematic review
thoroughly describes IE by Acinetobacter and provides information on
epidemiology, clinical presentation, treatment and outcomes.

DOI: 10.1080/1120009X.2020.1812804 
PMID: 32875967 

