
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Apr 23;11:752. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00752. eCollection
2020.

Isolation and Characterization of Phosphorus Solubilizing Bacteria With Multiple 
Phosphorus Sources Utilizing Capability and Their Potential for Lead
Immobilization in Soil.

Wan W(1)(2), Qin Y(1), Wu H(1), Zuo W(1), He H(1), Tan J(1), Wang Y(1), He D(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Science, South-Central University for Nationalities, Wuhan,
China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Agricultural Microbiology, Huazhong Agricultural
University, Wuhan, China.

Phosphorus solubilizing bacteria (PSB) can promote the level of plant-absorbable 
phosphorus (P) in agro-ecosystems. However, little attention has been paid to PSB
harboring abilities in utilizing multiple phosphorus sources and their potentials
for heavy metal immobilization. In this study, we applied the strategy of
stepwise acclimation by using Ca3(PO4)2, phytate, FePO4, and AlPO4 as sole P
source. We gained 18 PSB possessing abilities of multiple P sources utilization, 
and these bacteria belonged to eight genera (Acinetobacter, Pseudomonas,
Massilia, Bacillus, Arthrobacter, Stenotrophomonas, Ochrobactrum, and
Cupriavidus), and clustered to two apparent parts: Gram-positive bacteria and
Gram-negative bacteria. The isolate of Acinetobacter pittii gp-1 presented good
performance for utilizing Ca3(PO4)2, FePO4, AlPO4, and phytate, with
corresponding P solubilizing levels were 250.77, 46.10, 81.99, and 7.91 mg/L PO4 
3--P, respectively. The PSB A. pittii gp-1 exhibited good performance for
solubilizing tricalcium phosphate in soil incubation experiments, with the
highest values of water soluble P and available P were 0.80 and 1.64 mg/L,
respectively. Additionally, the addition of A. pittii gp-1 could promote the
immobilization of lead (Pb), and the highest Pb immobilization efficiency reached
23%. Simultaneously, we found the increases in abundances of both alkaline
phosphatase gene (phoD) and β-propeller phytase gene (bpp) in strain gp-1 added
soils. Besides, we observed the expression up-regulation of both pyrroloquinoline
quinone gene (pqq) and polyphosphate kinases gene (ppk), with the highest
relative expression levels of 18.18 and 5.23, respectively. We also found the
polyphosphate particles using granule staining. To our knowledge, our findings
first suggest that the solubilizing of tricalcium phosphate by phosphorus
solubilizing bacterium belonging to Acinetobacter is coupled with the synthesis
of polyphosphate. Taken together, A. pittii gp-1 could be a good candidate in
improving soil fertility and quality.

Copyright © 2020 Wan, Qin, Wu, Zuo, He, Tan, Wang and He.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00752 
PMCID: PMC7190802
PMID: 32390988 

