
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Oct;77(10):2724-2734. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02060-w. Epub 
2020 Jun 3.

Molecular Characterization of Carbapenem-Resistant Acinetobacter baumannii
Associated with Nosocomial Infection in the Pelotas, RS, Brazil.

de Freitas SB(1)(2), Amaral SC(1)(2), Ferreira MRA(1), Roloff BC(1)(2), Moreira C
Jr(1), Conceição FR(1), Hartwig DD(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Technological Development, Biotechnology, Federal University of
Pelotas, Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Parasitology, Biology Institute, Federal
University of Pelotas, University Campus, mailbox 354, Pelotas, RS, CEP
96010-900, Brazil.
(3)Center of Technological Development, Biotechnology, Federal University of
Pelotas, Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. daianehartwig@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Parasitology, Biology Institute, Federal
University of Pelotas, University Campus, mailbox 354, Pelotas, RS, CEP
96010-900, Brazil. daianehartwig@gmail.com.

Acinetobacter calcoaceticus-Acinetobacter baumannii complex (ACB) comprises some 
opportunistic pathogens associated with infectious outbreaks in hospital
settings. A. baumannii is the most relevant species owing to its capacity to
develop resistance to the different classes of antimicrobials. The aim of this
study was to identify the species, establish the genetic patterns, resistance and
biofilm profiles in ACB isolates associated with nosocomial infection in a
hospital of Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Twenty-two clinical isolates were
characterized at the species level through multiplex polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) for the gyrB and blaOXA51-like genes, and the genetic relationship was
determined through pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). Their antibiotic
resistance profiles and carbapenemases synthesis were evaluated following CLSI
guidelines. PCR was carried out to evaluate the presence of carbapenemases genes 
and the isolates were classified for their biofilm-forming ability. All isolates 
obtained in the study were identified as A. baumannii and 72.7% of the isolates
were classified as strong biofilm formers. In the class carbapenems, 95.4% and
77.3% of the isolates were resistant to meropenem and imipenem, respectively. The
blaVIM gene was identified in 90.9% of isolates and carbapenemases synthesis were
confirmed in 95.4% of the isolates. Fourteen genetic patterns were confirmed
through PFGE analyses. The isolates collected within a time gap of 2 years
demonstrated a genetic relationship, and the same clone was identified in
different departments in the hospital. To the best of our knowledge, this is the 
first report of identification and characterization of A. baumannii nosocomial
isolates in Pelotas, RS, Brazil.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02060-w 
PMID: 32494881 

