
1. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2020 Jul 16;13(7). pii: E153. doi: 10.3390/ph13070153.

Curcumin, a Natural Antimicrobial Agent with Strain-Specific Activity.

Adamczak A(1), Ożarowski M(2), Karpiński TM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Breeding and Agricultural Technology of Medicinal
Plants, Institute of Natural Fibres and Medicinal Plants, Kolejowa 2, 62-064
Plewiska, Poland.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Natural Fibres and Medicinal Plants,
Wojska Polskiego 71b, 60-630 Poznań, Poland.
(3)Chair and Department of Medical Microbiology, Poznań University of Medical
Sciences, Wieniawskiego 3, 61-712 Poznań, Poland.

Curcumin, a principal bioactive substance of turmeric (Curcuma longa L.), is
reported as a strong antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, antifungal,
and antiviral agent. However, its antimicrobial properties require further
detailed investigations into clinical and multidrug-resistant (MDR) isolates. In 
this work, we tested curcumin's efficacy against over 100 strains of pathogens
belonging to 19 species. This activity was determined by the broth microdilution 
method and by calculating the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC). Our
findings confirmed a much greater sensitivity of Gram-positive than Gram-negative
bacteria. This study exhibited a significantly larger variation in the curcumin
activity than previous works and suggested that numerous clinical strains of
widespread pathogens have a poor sensitivity to curcumin. Similarly, the MICs of 
the MDR types of Staphylococcus aureus, S. haemolyticus, Escherichia coli, and
Proteus mirabilis were high (≥2000 µg/mL). However, curcumin was effective
against some species and strains: Streptococcus pyogenes (median MIC = 31.25
µg/mL), methicillin-sensitive S. aureus (250 µg/mL), Acinetobacter lwoffii (250
µg/mL), and individual strains of Enterococcus faecalis and Pseudomonas
aeruginosa (62.5 µg/mL). The sensitivity of species was not associated with its
affiliation to the genus, and it could differ a lot (e.g., S. pyogenes, S.
agalactiae and A. lwoffii, A. baumannii). Hence, curcumin can be considered as a 
promising antibacterial agent, but with a very selective activity.

DOI: 10.3390/ph13070153 
PMCID: PMC7408453
PMID: 32708619 

