
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Jul;77(7):1159-1166. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-01919-2. Epub
2020 Feb 15.

Microbial Contamination of Medical Staff Clothing During Patient Care Activities:
Performance of Decontamination of Domestic Versus Industrial Laundering
Procedures.

Chiereghin A(1), Felici S(1), Gibertoni D(2), Foschi C(1), Turello G(1),
Piccirilli G(1), Gabrielli L(1), Clerici P(3), Landini MP(4), Lazzarotto T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Specialized, Experimental, and Diagnostic Medicine, Operative
Unit of Clinical Microbiology, St. Orsola Polyclinic, University of Bologna, Via 
Giuseppe Massarenti 9, 40138, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, Unit of Hygiene and
Biostatistics, University of Bologna, Via San Giacomo 12, 40126, Bologna, Italy.
(3)Microbiology Unit, Hospital of Legnano, ASST Ovest Milanese, Via Papa Giovanni
Paolo II, 20025, Legnano, MI, Italy.
(4)Rizzoli Scientific Orthopedic Institute, Via Giulio Cesare Pupilli 1, 40136,
Bologna, Italy.
(5)Department of Specialized, Experimental, and Diagnostic Medicine, Operative
Unit of Clinical Microbiology, St. Orsola Polyclinic, University of Bologna, Via 
Giuseppe Massarenti 9, 40138, Bologna, Italy. tiziana.lazzarotto@unibo.it.

The efficacy of domestic laundering of healthcare staff clothing is still
debated. This study aimed to compare the performance of decontamination of
different domestic laundering with that of industrial laundering. Fourteen
naturally contaminated white coats of healthcare workers (5 fabric squares from
each coat) and fabric squares of artificially contaminated cotton cloth (30
fabric squares per each bacterial strain used) were included. Four domestic
laundering procedures were performed; two different washing temperatures (40 °C
and 90 °C) and drying (tumble dry and air dry) were used. All fabric squares were
ironed. Presence of bacterial bioburden on the fabric squares after domestic and 
industrial laundering was investigated. None of the naturally contaminated fabric
squares resulted completely decontaminated after any of the domestic washes. At
24, 48, and 72 h of incubation, bacterial growth was observed in all the
laundered fabric squares. Besides environmental microorganisms, potentially
pathogenic bacteria (i.e., Acinetobacter lwoffii, Micrococcus luteus,
coagulase-negative staphylococci) were isolated. On the artificially contaminated
fabric squares, the bioburden was reduced after the domestic laundries;
nevertheless, both Gram-negative and -positive pathogenic bacteria were not
completely removed. In addition, a contamination of the fabric squares by
environmental Gram-negative bacteria was observed. In both the naturally and
artificially contaminated fabric squares, no bacterial growth at all the
time-points analyzed was observed after industrial laundering, which provided to 
be more effective in bacterial decontamination than domestic washes. For those
areas requiring the highest level of decontamination, the use of specialized
industrial laundry services should be preferred.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-01919-2 
PMID: 32062686 

