
1. Chemosphere. 2020 Nov;258:127326. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2020.127326. Epub
2020 Jun 6.

Highly efficient removal of victoria blue R and bioelectricity generation from
textile wastewater using a novel combined dual microbial fuel cell system.

Wu LC(1), Chen CY(2), Lin TK(3), Su YY(3), Chung YC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Logistics Engineering, Dongguan Polytechnic, Dongguan City,
523808, China.
(2)Department of Tourism and Leisure, Hsing Wu University, Taipei, 244, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Biological Science and Technology, China University of Science
and Technology, Taipei, 115, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Biological Science and Technology, China University of Science
and Technology, Taipei, 115, Taiwan. Electronic address: ycchung@cc.cust.edu.tw.

A novel combined dual microbial fuel cell (MFC) system was developed for the
continuous removal of Victoria Blue R (VBR) and electricity generation. Anaerobic
and aerobic VBR-degrading bacteria, Shewanella putrefaciens and Acinetobacter
calcoaceticus, respectively, were applied simultaneously. The effects of various 
factors on the performance of the novel system in the continuous mode were
investigated, and optimal operating parameters for the system were determined.
The optimal liquid retention time for continuous treatment was 36 h. The optimal 
external resistances of connected MFCs were 390 Ω and 1300 Ω. When artificial
wastewater containing 1000 mg/l of VBR was fed continuously into the system, the 
VBR removal efficiency achieved was 98.7%. In addition, the acute toxicity of the
effluent was decreased by a factor of 21.1-22.3, indicating that the system could
detoxify VBR intermediates. VBR degradation involved a stepwise demethylation
process, which occurred mainly in the first MFC, whereas aromatic ring opening,
sequential deamination reaction, and carbon oxidation occurred mainly in the
second MFC. When actual VBR-containing wastewater (75-262 mg/l) was introduced,
the removal efficiencies of VBR, chemical oxygen demand, colority, NH3, and
bioelectricity generation were >99.8%, >96.6%, >88.0%, 100%, and >194.8 mW/m2,
respectively and the original inoculated strains remained dominant. Therefore,
the combined dual MFC system could be applied to the treatment of actual
VBR-containing wastewater.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2020.127326 
PMID: 32535452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

