
1. ACS Omega. 2020 Jan 23;5(4):2015-2026. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.9b04034. eCollection
2020 Feb 4.

Mechanism of Reconstitution/Activation of the Soluble PQQ-Dependent Glucose
Dehydrogenase from Acinetobacter calcoaceticus: A Comprehensive Study.

Stines-Chaumeil C(1), Mavré F(2), Kauffmann B(3), Mano N(1), Limoges B(2).

Author information: 
(1)CNRS, Université de Bordeaux, CRPP, UMR 5031, 115 Avenue Schweitzer, F-33600
Pessac, France.
(2)Université de Paris, Laboratoire d'Electrochimie Moléculaire, UMR 7591, CNRS, 
F-75013 Paris, France.
(3)CNRS UMS 3033, INSERM US001, Université de Bordeaux, IECB, 2, Rue Robert
Escarpit, F-33607 Pessac, France.

The ability to switch on the activity of an enzyme through its spontaneous
reconstitution has proven to be a valuable tool in fundamental studies of enzyme 
structure/reactivity relationships or in the design of artificial signal
transduction systems in bioelectronics, synthetic biology, or bioanalytical
applications. In particular, those based on the spontaneous
reconstitution/activation of the apo-PQQ-dependent soluble glucose dehydrogenase 
(sGDH) from Acinetobacter calcoaceticus were widely developed. However, the
reconstitution mechanism of sGDH with its two cofactors, i.e., pyrroloquinoline
quinone (PQQ) and Ca2+, remains unknown. The objective here is to elucidate this 
mechanism by stopped-flow kinetics under single-turnover conditions. The
reconstitution of sGDH exhibited biphasic kinetics, characteristic of a square
reaction scheme associated with two activation pathways. From a complete kinetic 
analysis, we were able to fully predict the reconstitution dynamics and also to
demonstrate that when PQQ first binds to apo-sGDH, it strongly impedes the access
of Ca2+ to its enclosed position at the bottom of the enzyme binding site,
thereby greatly slowing down the reconstitution rate of sGDH. This slow calcium
insertion may purposely be accelerated by providing more flexibility to the Ca2+ 
binding loop through the specific mutation of the calcium-coordinating P248
proline residue, reducing thus the kinetic barrier to calcium ion insertion. The 
dynamic nature of the reconstitution process is also supported by the observation
of a clear loop shift and a reorganization of the hydrogen-bonding network and
van der Waals interactions observed in both active sites of the apo and holo
forms, a structural change modulation that was revealed from the refined X-ray
structure of apo-sGDH (PDB: 5MIN).

Copyright © 2020 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.9b04034 
PMCID: PMC7003513
PMID: 32039339 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interest.

