
1. Huan Jing Ke Xue. 2019 Nov 8;40(11):5133-5141. doi: 10.13227/j.hjkx.201906055.

[Community Structure of Heavy Metal Immobilized Bacteria in the Lettuce (Lactuca 
sativa L.) Rhizosphere in Soil Polluted by Heavy Metals and Its Effects on
Reducing Heavy Metal Accumulation in Lettuce].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang TJ(1), Su NN(1), Lei P(1), Qiu MY(1), Chen ZJ(1), Yao LG(1), Han H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Collaborative Innovation Center of Water Security for Water Source Region of
Mid-route Project of South-North Water Diversion of Henan Province, School of
Agricultural Engineering, Nanyang Normal University, Nanyang 473061, China.

To investigate the diversity of culturable bacteria and heavy metal-immobilizing 
bacteria in vegetable rhizosphere soil with high concentrations of heavy metals
and explore these microbial resources, two samples of Italian lettuce rhizosphere
soil with high heavy metal concentration (HY) and low heavy metal concentration
(DK) were collected from Xinxiang, Henan Province. The diversity of culturable
bacteria and heavy metal-immobilizing bacteria in the rhizosphere soil of lettuce
was compared by culturable separation technology and a solution adsorption
experiment. The enhancement of Cd and Pb immobilization and lettuce growth by the
strains was also investigated in a hydroponic experiment. The results showed that
400 strains belonging to 3 phyla and 14 genera were isolated from the HY sample, 
with Î²-Proteobacteria being the dominant phylum. Meanwhile, 400 strains belonging
to 4 phyla and 30 genera were isolated from the DK sample, with Firmicutes being 
the dominant phylum. A total of 146 strains had a strong ability to immobilize
heavy metal and the Cd and Pb removal rates were greater than 80% in the HY
sample; Brevundimonas, Serratia, Arthrobacter, and Pseudarthrobacter were the
main genera. However, 44 strains had a strong ability to immobilize heavy metal
and the Cd and Pb removal rates were greater than 80% in the DK sample, with
Bacillus being the main genus. Compared with the control, inoculation with
Serratia liquefaciens HY-22, Bacillus thuringiensis HY-53, and Acinetobacter
lwoffii HY-157 significantly increased the dry weight of roots (7.5%-77.6%) and
shoots (15.4%-67.2%) of the Italian lettuce and cauliflower lettuce and reduced
the contents of Cd (38.7%-66.6%) and Pb (34.7%-62.5%) in roots and shoots of
Italian lettuce. In addition, the contents of Cd and Pb in the fresh shoots of
Italian lettuce and cauliflower lettuce in the presence of Bacillus thuringiensis
HY-53 were lower than the Cd and Pb limits set by national food safety standards.
Thus, the results provided strain resources and a theoretical basis for the
remediation of Cd-and Pb-contaminated farmlands for the safe production of crops.

DOI: 10.13227/j.hjkx.201906055 
PMID: 31854583  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

