
1. J Med Entomol. 2020 May 4;57(3):915-926. doi: 10.1093/jme/tjz234.

Genetic Diversity of Pediculus humanus capitis (Phthiraptera: Pediculidae) in
Peninsular Malaysia and Molecular Detection of Its Potential Associated
Pathogens.

Mokhtar AS(1), Ling Lau Y(2), Wilson JJ(3), Abdul-Aziz NM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Malaysian Life Science Accelerator, UM Centre of Innovation and
Commercialization, University of Malaya, 50603 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Parasitology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)International College Beijing, China Agricultural University, Beijing, P.R.
China.

Pediculosis capitis caused by Pediculus humanus capitis (De Geer) is endemic all 
over the world, and children are mostly affected, particularly those living in
overcrowded institutions. Several studies have shown that P. h. capitis carried
human pathogenic bacteria, suggesting the potential role of head lice in the
transmission of pathogens to humans. In this study, we determined the genetic
diversity of head lice collected from welfare homes sheltering underprivileged
children by using DNA barcoding and demonstrated the presence of Acinetobacter
spp., Serratia marcescens, and Staphylococcus aureus in head lice, which have
never been investigated before in Malaysia. Cox1 DNA barcoding identified the
head lice, P. h. capitis collected from welfare homes across two geographical
areas of Peninsular Malaysia as belonging to clades A, B, and D. Acinetobacter
bacteria: Acinetobacter guillouiae, Acinetobacter junii, Acinetobacter baumannii,
and Acinetobacter nosocomialis were detected in head lice belonging to clades A
and also D. In addition, DNA from S. marcescens and S. aureus were also detected 
in both clades A and D. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the genetic
diversity of head lice in Malaysia through DNA barcoding, as well as the first to
provide molecular evidence on the type of bacteria occurring in head lice in
Malaysia. It is anticipated that the DNA barcoding technique used in this study
will be able to provide rapid and accurate identification of arthropods, in
particular, medically important ectoparasites.

Â© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jme/tjz234 
PMID: 31828310 

