
1. Microb Genom. 2020 Jun;6(6). doi: 10.1099/mgen.0.000381. Epub 2020 Jun 4.

Microevolution in the major outer membrane protein OmpA of Acinetobacter
baumannii.

Viale AM(1), Evans BA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular de Rosario (IBR, CONICET) and
Departamento de Microbiología, Facultad de Ciencias Bioquímicas y Farmacéuticas, 
Universidad Nacional de Rosario (UNR), 2000 Rosario, Argentina.
(2)Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.

Acinetobacter baumannii is nowadays a relevant nosocomial pathogen characterized 
by multidrug resistance (MDR) and concomitant difficulties to treat infections.
OmpA is the most abundant A. baumannii outer membrane (OM) protein, and is
involved in virulence, host-cell recognition, biofilm formation, regulation of OM
stability, permeability and antibiotic resistance. OmpA members are two-domain
proteins with an N-terminal eight-stranded β-barrel domain with four external
loops (ELs) interacting with the environment, and a C-terminal periplasmic domain
binding non-covalently to the peptidoglycan. Here, we combined data from genome
sequencing, phylogenetic and multilocus sequence analyses from 975
strains/isolates of the Acinetobacter calcoaceticus/Acinetobacter baumannii
complex (ACB), 946 from A. baumannii, to explore ompA microevolutionary
divergence. Five major ompA variant groups were identified (V1 to V5) in A.
baumannii, encompassing 52 different alleles coding for 23 different proteins.
Polymorphisms were concentrated in five regions corresponding to the four ELs and
the C-terminal end, and provided evidence for intra-genic recombination. ompA
variants were not randomly distributed across the A. baumannii phylogeny, with
the most frequent V1(lct)a1 allele found in most clonal complex 2 (CC2) strains
and the second most frequent V2(lct)a1 allele in the majority of CC1 strains.
Evidence was found for assortative exchanges of ompA alleles not only between
separate A. baumannii lineages, but also different ACB species. The overall
results have implications for A. baumannii evolution, epidemiology, virulence and
vaccine design.

DOI: 10.1099/mgen.0.000381 
PMCID: PMC7371106
PMID: 32496178 

