
1. Biomed Res Int. 2020 Sep 12;2020:8281623. doi: 10.1155/2020/8281623. eCollection 
2020.

Characterisation of Bacteriocins Produced by Lactobacillus spp. Isolated from the
Traditional Pakistani Yoghurt and Their Antimicrobial Activity against Common
Foodborne Pathogens.

Hassan MU(1)(2), Nayab H(3), Rehman TU(3), Williamson MP(2), Haq KU(3), Shafi
N(4), Shafique F(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Shaheed Benazir Bhutto Women University, Peshawar 
2500, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, University of Sheffield,
Sheffield S10 2TN, UK.
(3)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Khyber Medical University, Peshawar 2500,
Pakistan.
(4)Department of Zoology, University of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, Muzaffarabad
2500, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Biomedical Science, University of Sheffield, S10 2TN 72020
Mahreen Ul Hassan et al., UK.

Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) are widely known for their probiotic activities for
centuries. These bacteria synthesise some secretory proteinaceous toxins,
bacteriocins, which help destroy similar or interrelated bacterial strains. This 
study was aimed at characterising bacteriocins extracted from Lactobacillus spp. 
found in yoghurt and assessing their bactericidal effect on foodborne bacteria.
Twelve isolated Lactobacillus spp. were examined to produce bacteriocins by the
organic solvent extraction method. Bacteriocins produced by two of these strains,
Lactobacillus helveticus (BLh) and Lactobacillus plantarum (BLp), showed the most
significant antimicrobial activity, especially against Staphylococcus aureus and 
Acinetobacter baumannii. Analysis of SDS-PAGE showed that L. plantarum and L.
helveticus bacteriocins have a molecular weight of ~10 kDa and ~15 kDa,
respectively. L. plantarum (BLp) bacteriocin was heat stable while L. helveticus 
(BLh) bacteriocin was heat labile. Both bacteriocins have shown activity at
acidic pH. Exposure to a UV light enhances the activity of the BLh; however, it
had negligible effects on the BLp. Different proteolytic enzymes confirmed the
proteinaceous nature of both the bacteriocins. From this study, it was concluded 
that bacteriocin extracts from L. helveticus (BLh) can be considered a preferable
candidate against foodborne pathogens as compared to L. plantarum (BLp). These
partially purified bacteriocins should be further processed to attain purified
product that could be useful for food spoilage and preservation purposes.

Copyright © 2020 Mahreen Ul Hassan et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/8281623 
PMCID: PMC7503110
PMID: 33005689 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflict of interest.

