
1. Antimicrob Resist Infect Control. 2020 Jul 6;9(1):101. doi:
10.1186/s13756-020-00769-8.

The first nationwide multicenter study of Acinetobacter baumannii recovered in
Serbia: emergence of OXA-72, OXA-23 and NDM-1-producing isolates.

Lukovic B(1), Gajic I(2), Dimkic I(3), Kekic D(4), Zornic S(5), Pozder T(6),
Radisavljevic S(7), Opavski N(4), Kojic M(8), Ranin L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical Faculty, University of
Belgrade, Doktora Subotica starijeg 1, Belgrade, 11000, Serbia.
bojanall@yahoo.com.
(2)Institute of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical Faculty, University of
Belgrade, Doktora Subotica starijeg 1, Belgrade, 11000, Serbia.
ina.gajic@yahoo.com.
(3)Faculty of Biology, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(4)Institute of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical Faculty, University of
Belgrade, Doktora Subotica starijeg 1, Belgrade, 11000, Serbia.
(5)Department of Microbiology, Clinical Center Kragujevac, Kragujevac, Serbia.
(6)Department of Microbiology, General Hospital Subotica, Subotica, Serbia.
(7)Department of Microbiology, General Hospital Pancevo, Pancevo, Serbia.
(8)Laboratory for Molecular Microbiology, Institute of Molecular Genetics and
Genetic Engineering, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.

BACKGROUND: The worldwide emergence and clonal spread of carbapenem-resistant
Acinetobacter baumannii (CRAB) is of great concern. The aim of this nationwide
study was to investigate the prevalence of CRAB isolates in Serbia and to
characterize underlying resistance mechanisms and their genetic relatedness.
METHODS: Non-redundant clinical samples obtained from hospitalized patients
throughout Serbia were included in the prospective, observational, multicenter
study conducted from January to June 2018. Samples were initially screened for
the presence of Acinetobacter baumannii-calcoaceticus (Acb) complex using
conventional bacteriological techniques. Acb complexes recovered from clinical
samples obtained from inpatients with confirmed bacterial infections were further
evaluated for the presence of A. baumannii. Identification to the species level
was done by the detection of the blaOXA-51 gene and rpoB gene sequence analysis. 
Susceptibility testing was done by disk diffusion and broth microdilution method.
CRAB isolates were tested for the presence of acquired carbapenemases
(blaOXA-24-like, blaOXA-23-like,blaOXA-58-like, blaOXA-143-like, blaIMP, blaVIM, 
blaGIM, blaSPM, blaSIM, blaNDM) by PCR. Clonal relatedness was assessed by
pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and multilocus sequence typing (MLST).
RESULTS: Acb complex was isolated in 280 out of 2401 clinical samples (11.6%).
Overall, A. baumannii was identified in 237 out of 280 Acb complex (84.6%). CRAB 
prevalence was found to be 93.7% (237/222). The MIC50/MIC90 for imipenem and
meropenem were 8/> 32 μg/mL and 16/> 32 μg/mL, respectively. Although
susceptibility was high for colistin (95.7%; n = 227) and tigecycline (75.1%;
n = 178), ten isolates (4.3%) were classified as pandrug-resistant. The following
carbapenemases-encoding genes were found: 98 (44.2%) blaOXA-24-like, 76 (34.5%)
blaOXA-23-like, and 7 (3.2%) blaNDM-1. PFGE analysis revealed six different
clusters. MLST analysis identified three STs: ST2 (n = 13), ST492 (n = 14), and
ST636 (n = 10). Obtained results evaluated that circulating CRAB clones in Serbia
were as follows: blaOXA66/blaOXA23/ST2 (32.4%), blaOXA66/blaOXA23/blaOXA72/ST2
(2.7%), blaOXA66/blaOXA72/ST492 (37.8%), and blaOXA66/blaOXA72/ST636 (27.1%).
CONCLUSION: This study revealed extremely high proportions of carbapenem
resistance among A. baumannii clinical isolates due to the emergence of
blaOXA-72, blaOXA-23, and blaNDM-1 genes among CRAB isolates in Serbia and their 
clonal propagation.

DOI: 10.1186/s13756-020-00769-8 
PMCID: PMC7338125
PMID: 32631451 

