
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Sep;70(9):5165-5171. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004404.
Epub 2020 Aug 26.

The status of the genus Prolinoborus (Pot et al. 1992) and the species
Prolinoborus fasciculus (Pot et al. 1992).

Glaeser SP(1), Pulami D(1), Blom J(2), Eisenberg T(3), Goesmann A(2), Bender
J(4), Wilharm G(5), Kämpfer P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Angewandte Mikrobiologie, Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen,
D-35392 Giessen, Germany.
(2)Institute for Bioinformatics and Systems Biology, Justus-Liebig-Universität
Giessen, D-35392 Giessen, Germany.
(3)Landesbetrieb Hessisches Landeslabor (LHL), D-35392 Giessen, Germany.
(4)Fachgebiet 13 Nosokomiale Infektionserreger und Antibiotikaresistenzen, Robert
Koch-Institut, Bereich Wernigerode, D-38855 Wernigerode, Germany.
(5)Projektgruppe P2, Robert Koch-Institut, Bereich Wernigerode, D-38855
Wernigerode, Germany.

On the basis of two other publications (Yarza et al. 2013; Nemec et al. 2019) and
on the basis of resequencing of the 16S rRNA gene of Prolinoborus fasciculus CIP 
103579T it is concluded that Prolinoborus fasciculus CIP 103579T, which is the
only available strain of the species from culture collections, does not conform
to the original description given by Pot et al. (1992). The strain investigated
is a member of the genus Acinetobacter within the Moraxellaceae, a family of the 
Gammaproteobacteria and not a member of the Betaproteobacteria as originally
proposed. Prolinoborus fasciculus CIP 103579T shared 99.8 % 16S rRNA gene
sequence similarity with Acinetobacter lwoffii DSM 2403T. The two strains
clustered together by rpoB- and core genome-based phylogenetic analyses and
shared an average nucleotide identity of 96.47% (reciprocal, 96.56 %) and a
digital genome distance calculation (GGDC) value of 66.9 %. Furthermore, the two 
strains shared matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight MS
profiles to a high extent and showed highly similar cellular fatty acid profiles 
and physiological substrate utilization patterns. It is proposed that the
Judicial commission consider (1) that the strain currently deposited as CIP
103579 be recognized as a member of Acinetobacter lwoffii; (2) placing
Prolinoborus fasciculus (Pot et al. 1992) on the list of rejected names if a
suitable replacement strain, or a neotype strain cannot be found within 2 years
of publication of this request; and (3) place the genus name Prolinoborus (Pot et
al. 1992) on the list of rejected names [Recommendation 20D (3) of the Code].

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004404 
PMID: 32845831 

