
1. N Biotechnol. 2020 Jan 25;54:71-79. doi: 10.1016/j.nbt.2019.08.005. Epub 2019 Aug
29.

Peroxide-driven catalysis of the heme domain of A. radioresistens cytochrome P450
116B5 for sustainable aromatic rings oxidation and drug metabolites production.

Ciaramella A(1), Catucci G(1), Di Nardo G(1), Sadeghi SJ(1), Gilardi G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences and Systems Biology, University of Torino, Via
Accademia Albertina 13, 10123, Torino, Italy.
(2)Department of Life Sciences and Systems Biology, University of Torino, Via
Accademia Albertina 13, 10123, Torino, Italy. Electronic address:
gianfranco.gilardi@unito.it.

The heme domain of cytochrome P450 116B5 from Acinetobacter radioresistens (P450 
116B5hd), a self-sufficient class VII P450, was functionally expressed in
Escherichia coli, purified and characterised in active form. Its unusually high
reduction potential (-144 ± 42 mV) and stability in the presence of hydrogen
peroxide make this enzyme a good candidate for driving catalysis with the
so-called peroxide shunt, avoiding the need for a reductase and the expensive
cofactor NAD(P)H. The enzyme is able to carry out the peroxide-driven
hydroxylation of aromatic compounds such as p-nitrophenol (KM = 128.85 ± 29.51 μM
and kcat = 2.65 ± 0.14 min-1), 10-acetyl-3,7-dihydroxyphenoxazine
(KM = 6.01 ± 0.32 μM and kcat = 0.33 ± 0.03 min-1), and
3,5,3',5'tetramethylbenzidine (TMB). Moreover, it catalyses different reactions
on well-known drugs such as hydroxylation of diclofenac (KM = 49.60 ± 6.30 μM and
kcat = 0.06 ± 0.01 min-1) and N-desmethylation of tamoxifen (KM = 57.20 ± 7.90 μM
and kcat = 0.79 ± 0.04 min-1). The data demonstrate that P450 116B5hd is an
efficient biocatalyst for sustainable applications in bioremediation and human
drug metabolite production.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbt.2019.08.005 
PMID: 31473254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

