
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Jan;104(1):427-437. doi:
10.1007/s00253-019-10271-w. Epub 2019 Dec 10.

Phenol biodegradation by Acinetobacter radioresistens APH1 and its application in
soil bioremediation.

Liu Y(1), Wang W(1), Shah SB(1), Zanaroli G(2), Xu P(1), Tang H(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, and School of Life Sciences &
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, People's Republic
of China.
(2)Department of Civil, Chemical, Environmental, and Materials Engineering
(DICAM), University of Bologna, 40131, Bologna, Italy.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, and School of Life Sciences &
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, People's Republic
of China. tanghongzhi@sjtu.edu.cn.

Phenol accounts for a large proportion of the contamination in industrial
wastewater discharged from chemical plants due to its wide use as a raw chemical.
Residual phenol waste in water and soil significantly endangers human health and 
the natural environment. In this study, an Acinetobacter radioresistens strain,
APH1, was isolated and identified for its efficient capability of utilizing
phenol as sole carbon source for growth. A draft genome sequence containing
3,290,330 bases with 45 contigs was obtained, and 22 genes were found to be
involved in phenol metabolism and 51 putative drug-resistance genes were
annotated by genomic analysis. The optimal conditions for cell culture and phenol
removal were determined to be 30 °C, pH 6.0, and a phenol concentration of
500 mg/L; the upper limit of phenol tolerance was 950 mg/L. Based on GC-MS
analysis, the key metabolites including cis,cis-muconic acid, catechol, and
succinic acid were detected. During bioremediation experiment using 450 mg/kg
(dry weight) of phenol-contaminated soil, the strain APH1 removed 99% of the
phenol within 3 days. According to microbial diversity analysis, the microbial
abundance of Chungangia, Bacillus, Nitrospira, Lysinibacillus, and Planomicrobium
increased after the addition of phenol. Furthermore, at day 23, the abundance of 
strain APH1 was greatly reduced, and the microbial diversity and structure of the
whole microbial community were gradually recovered, indicating that strain APH1
would not affect this microbial ecosystem. These findings provide insights into
the bioremediation of soil contaminated with phenol.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-019-10271-w 
PMID: 31822982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

