
1. Int J Clin Pharm. 2020 Sep 29. doi: 10.1007/s11096-020-01154-6. [Epub ahead of
print]

Colistin co-administration with other nephrotoxins: experience of teaching
hospital of Latvia.

Aitullina A(1)(2), Purviņa S(3)(4), Krūmiņa A(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Riga Stradins University, 13 Pilsonu St., Riga,
1002, Latvia. aleksandra.aitullina@rsu.lv.
(2)Paul Stradins Clinical University Hospital, Riga, Latvia.
aleksandra.aitullina@rsu.lv.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Riga Stradins University, 13 Pilsonu St., Riga,
1002, Latvia.
(4)Paul Stradins Clinical University Hospital, Riga, Latvia.
(5)Department of Infectology, Riga Stradins University, 3 Linezera St., Riga,
1006, Latvia.
(6)Riga East Clinical University Hospital, Riga, Latvia.

Background Colistin is a potentially nephrotoxic antibiotic used for the
management of multidrug-resistant bacterial infections in critically ill
patients. Co-administration with other nephrotoxins was reported as a potentially
modifiable risk factor of colistin acute kidney injury. Objective To establish
the role of colistin dosing and co-medications in development of colistin kidney 
injury. Setting Community teaching hospital in Latvia. Method Adult patients from
intensive care units with diagnosed Gram-negative bacterial infections,
undergoing colistin treatment for longer than 72 h, and not receiving renal
replacement therapy were included in this retrospective study. Main outcome
measure Colistin nephrotoxicity was defined as an increase in the serum
creatinine level by at least 50% from the baseline after ≥ 48 h. Results In 73 of
87 cases, Acinetobacter baumannii pneumonia was diagnosed. The nephrotoxicity
rate was 27.6% with a median onset of 8 days. In 79% of the cases, colistin was
co-administrated with at least one potentially nephrotoxic agent. The most used
nephrotoxins were loop diuretics (44 cases), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
drugs (19 cases) and vancomycin (11 cases). The use of nephrotoxins was similar
in patients with colistin nephrotoxicity (group-1) and without it (group-2).
Carbapenems were more common in group-2 (37% vs 62%, p = 0.004) and a colistin
loading dose of 9 MU in group-1 (87% vs 62%, p = 0.027). However, in the
multifactor regression analysis, the protective role of carbapenems was not
confirmed. Conclusion Potentially nephrotoxic agents are commonly
co-administrated with colistin. This study failed to prove their role in the
development of acute kidney injury.

DOI: 10.1007/s11096-020-01154-6 
PMID: 32996073 

