
1. Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek. 2020 Jan;113(1):21-32. doi: 10.1007/s10482-019-01312-5. 
Epub 2019 Aug 20.

Isolation, identification and characterisation of an emerging fish pathogen,
Acinetobacter pittii, from diseased loach (Misgurnus anguillicaudatus) in China.

Wang X(1), Li J(1), Cao X(1), Wang W(1), Luo Y(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Fisheries, Key Laboratory of Freshwater Animal Breeding, Ministry
of Agriculture, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan, 430070, Hubei, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)College of Fisheries, Key Laboratory of Freshwater Animal Breeding, Ministry
of Agriculture, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan, 430070, Hubei, People's 
Republic of China. luoyi@mail.hzau.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Agricultural Microbiology, Huazhong Agricultural
University, Wuhan, 430070, Hubei, People's Republic of China.
luoyi@mail.hzau.edu.cn.

Although members of the genus Acinetobacter have emerged as important nosocomial 
pathogens causing severe human infections, there are few reports about their
occurrence as fish pathogens. In this study, five bacterial strains were isolated
from diseased loach (Misgurnus anguillicaudatus) cultured in a farm in China. The
diseased loach displayed shedding of skin mucus and many petechial haemorrhages
all over the body. Based on sequence analyses of 16S rRNA and rpoB genes, the
isolates were identified as Acinetobacter pittii. An experimental infection assay
confirmed their pathogenicity to loach. The results of artificial infection in
zebrafish (Barchydanio rerio) and nematode (Caenorhabditis elegans) suggested
that, as well as loach, these A. pittii isolates are pathogenic and highly
virulent to these organisms. Multilocus sequence typing analysis revealed that
all the isolates belong to sequence type (ST) 839, which may be the dominant
clone causing fish disease and exhibits a close phylogenetic relationship with
ST396 from human clinical samples in Korea or Taiwan China. This is the first
report demonstrating that A. pittii is an emerging causal agent of mass mortality
in loach and poses significant risks to fish culturing besides causing human
clinical infection worldwide.

DOI: 10.1007/s10482-019-01312-5 
PMID: 31432291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

