
1. Mol Med Rep. 2020 Aug;22(2):643-650. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2020.11136. Epub 2020 May
7.

Effect of thymoquinone on Fusobacterium nucleatum‑associated biofilm and
inflammation.

Tada A(1), Nakayama-Imaohji H(1), Yamasaki H(2), Elahi M(1), Nagao T(3), Yagi
H(1), Ishikawa M(4), Shibuya K(4), Kuwahara T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Kagawa University, Takamatsu,
Kagawa 761‑0793, Japan.
(2)Division of Biology, Hyogo College of Medicine, Nishinomiya, Hyogo 663‑8501,
Japan.
(3)Faculty of Nursing, Shikoku University, Ohjin, Tokushima 771‑1192, Japan.
(4)Laboratory for Oral Health Science, Tokyo 103‑0012, Japan.

Periodontitis affects oral tissues and induces systemic inflammation, which
increases the risk of cardiovascular disease and metabolic syndrome. Subgingival 
plaque accumulation is a trigger of periodontitis. Fusobacterium nucleatum (FN)
contributes to subgingival biofilm complexity by intercalating with early and
late bacterial colonizers on tooth surfaces. In addition, inflammatory responses 
to FN are associated with the progression of periodontitis. Nigella sativa Lin.
seed, which is known as black cumin (BC), has been used as a herbal medicine to
treat ailments such as asthma and infectious diseases. The current study examined
the inhibitory effect of BC oil and its active constituents, thymol (TM) and
thymoquinone (TQ), on FN‑associated biofilm and inflammation. FN‑containing
biofilms were prepared by co‑cultivation with an early dental colonizer,
Actinomyces naeslundii (AN). The stability and biomass of FN/AN dual species
biofilms were significantly higher compared with FN alone. This effect was
retained even with prefixed cells, indicating that FN/AN co‑aggregation is
mediated by physicochemical interactions with cell surface molecules. FN/AN
biofilm formation was significantly inhibited by 0.1% TM or TQ. Confocal laser
scanning microscopy indicated that treatment of preformed FN/AN biofilm with
0.01% of BC, TM or TQ significantly reduced biofilm thickness, and TQ
demonstrated a cleansing effect equivalent to that of isopropyl methylphenol. TQ 
dose‑dependently suppressed TNF‑α production from a human monocytic cell line,
THP‑1 exposed to FN, yet showed no toxicity to THP‑1 cells. These results
indicated that oral hygiene care using TQ could reduce FN‑associated biofilm and 
inflammation in gingival tissue.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2020.11136 
PMCID: PMC7339527
PMID: 32626941 

