
1. J Clin Med. 2020 Apr 1;9(4). pii: E983. doi: 10.3390/jcm9040983.

Combined DNase and Proteinase Treatment Interferes with Composition and
Structural Integrity of Multispecies Oral Biofilms.

Karygianni L(1), Attin T(1), Thurnheer T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinic of Conservative and Preventive Dentistry, Center of Dental Medicine,
University of Zurich, 8032 Zurich, Switzerland.

Modification of oral biofilms adhering to dental hard tissues could lead to new
treatment approaches in cariology and periodontology. In this study the impact of
DNase I and/or proteinase K on the formation of a simulated supragingival biofilm
was investigated in vitro. Six-species biofilms were grown anaerobically in the
presence of DNase I and proteinase K. After 64 h biofilms were either harvested
and quantified by culture analysis or proceeded to staining followed by confocal 
laser scanning microscopy. Microbial cells were stained using DNA-dyes or
fluorescent in situ hybridization. Exopolysaccharides, eDNA and exoproteins were 
stained with Calcofluor, anti-DNA-antibody, and SyproTM Ruby, respectively.
Overall, results showed that neither DNase I nor proteinase K had an impact on
total colony-forming units (CFUs) compared to the control without enzymes.
However, DNase I significantly suppressed the growth of Actinomyces oris,
Fusobacterium nucleatum, Streptococcus mutans, Streptococcus oralis and Candida
albicans. Proteinase K treatment induced significant increase in S. mutans and S.
oralis CFUs (p < 0.001), whereas C. albicans and V. dispar showed lower CFUs
compared to the control. Interestingly, confocal images visualized the biofilm
degradation caused by DNase I and proteinase K. Thus, enzymatic treatment should 
be combined with conventional antimicrobial agents aiming at both bactericidal
effectiveness and biofilm dispersal.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm9040983 
PMCID: PMC7231231
PMID: 32244784 

