
1. Ann Transl Med. 2019 Dec;7(23):793. doi: 10.21037/atm.2019.12.38.

Pulmonary lesions associated with sputum culture-positive actinomycetes: report
of one case.

Wang L(1), Zhang H(1), Wu D(1), Feng M(1), Yang P(1), Hu X(1), Tattevin P(2),
Hong G(3), Chen R(1), Qiu C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Shenzhen People's
Hospital, Shenzhen Institute of Respiratory Diseases, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of 
Respiratory Diseases, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microorganisms and
Bacterial Resistance, First Affiliated Hospital of Southern Science and
Technology University, Second Clinical Medical College of Jinan University,
Shenzhen 518020, China.
(2)Infectious Diseases and ICU, Pontchaillou University Hospital, 35033 Rennes
cedex, France.
(3)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Internal
Medicine, Dankook University Hospital, Dankook University College of Medicine,
Cheonan, Republic of Korea.

Pulmonary actinomycosis (PA) is a rare subacute or chronic infectious disease. As
simple culture of Actinomyces in BAL, as with sputum, may represent colonization,
the diagnosis of PA relies on pathological examination. The preferred treatment
is long-term, high-dose penicillin. A 6-12-month-course of antibacterial
treatment is the rule in extended PA, although the optimal duration of treatment 
has not been investigated through randomized trial. In this article, we report a 
case presented with slowly-progressing pulmonary cavitary lesions. Actinomyces
odontolyticus was detected in sputum specimen harvested by tracheoscopy. The
clinical diagnosis was PA, which gradually improved with prolonged treatment of
penicillin and ornidazole. This is followed by a discussion of diagnosis and
treatment, especially in terms of treatment.

2019 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/atm.2019.12.38 
PMCID: PMC6990027
PMID: 32042809 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have no
conflicts of interest to declare.

