
1. Foods. 2020 Feb 24;9(2). pii: E246. doi: 10.3390/foods9020246.

New Evidences of Antibacterial Effects of Cranberry Against Periodontal
Pathogens.

Sánchez MC(1), Ribeiro-Vidal H(1), Bartolomé B(2), Figuero E(1), Moreno-Arribas
MV(2), Sanz M(1), Herrera D(1).

Author information: 
(1)ETEP (Etiology and Therapy of Periodontal Diseases) Research Group, University
Complutense of Madrid, Plaza Ramón y Cajal s/n, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Institute of Food Science Research (CIAL), CSIC-UAM, c/ Nicolás Cabrera 9,
28049 Madrid, Spain.

The worrying rise in antibiotic resistances emphasizes the need to seek new
approaches for treating and preventing periodontal diseases. The purpose of this 
study was to evaluate the antibacterial and anti-biofilm activity of cranberry in
a validated in vitro biofilm model. After chemical characterization of a selected
phenolic-rich cranberry extract, its values for minimum inhibitory concentration 
and minimum bactericidal concentration were calculated for the six bacteria
forming the biofilm (Streptococcus oralis, Actinomyces naeslundii, Veillonella
parvula, Fusobacterium nucleatum, Porphyromonas gingivalis, and Aggregatibacter
actinomycetemcomitans). Antibacterial activity of the cranberry extract in the
formed biofilm was evaluated by assessing the reduction in bacteria viability,
using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) combined with propidium
monoazide (PMA), and by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM), and
anti-biofilm activity by studying the inhibition of the incorporation of
different bacteria species in biofilms formed in the presence of the cranberry
extract, using qPCR and CLSM. In planktonic state, bacteria viability was
significantly reduced by cranberry (p < 0.05). When growing in biofilms, a
significant effect was observed against initial and early colonizers (S. oralis
(p ≤ 0.017), A. naeslundii (p = 0.006) and V. parvula (p = 0.010)) after 30 or 60
s of exposure, while no significant effects were detected against periodontal
pathogens (F. nucleatum, P. gingivalis or A. actinomycetemcomitans (p > 0.05)).
Conversely, cranberry significantly (p < 0.001 in all cases) interfered with the 
incorporation of five of the six bacteria species during the development of 6
h-biofilms, including P. gingivalis, A. actinomycetemcomitans, and F. nucleatum. 
It was concluded that cranberry had a moderate antibacterial effect against
periodontal pathogens in biofilms, but relevant anti-biofilm properties, by
affecting bacteria adhesion in the first 6 h of development of biofilms.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9020246 
PMCID: PMC7074180
PMID: 32102416 

