
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Jul 11;9(7). pii: E403. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9070403.

Phytochemical Composition and In Vitro Biological Activity of Iris spp.
(Iridaceae): A New Source of Bioactive Constituents for the Inhibition of Oral
Bacterial Biofilms.

Hoang L(1), Beneš F(2), Fenclová M(2), Kronusová O(1)(3), Švarcová V(1), Řehořová
K(1), Švecová EB(4), Vosátka M(4), Hajšlová J(2), Kaštánek P(3), Viktorová J(1), 
Ruml T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology UCT Prague, Faculty of Food and
Biochemical Technology, Technická 3, 166 28 Prague, Czech Republic.
(2)Department of Food Analysis and Nutrition UCT Prague, Faculty of Food and
Biochemical Technology, Technická 3, 166 28 Prague, Czech Republic.
(3)EcoFuel Laboratories Ltd., Ocelářská 9, 190 00 Praha, Czech Republic.
(4)Institute of Botany of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Zámek 1, 252 43
Průhonice, Czech Republic.

The inhibition and eradication of oral biofilms is increasingly focused on the
use of plant extracts as mouthwashes and toothpastes adjuvants. Here, we report
on the chemical composition and the antibiofilm activity of 15 methanolic
extracts of Iris species against both mono-(Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
Staphylococcus aureus) and multi-species oral biofilms (Streptococcus gordonii,
Veillonella parvula, Fusobacterium nucleatum subsp. nucleatum, and Actinomyces
naeslundii). The phytochemical profiles of Iris pallida s.l., Iris versicolor L.,
Iris lactea Pall., Iris carthaliniae Fomin, and Iris germanica were determined by
ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-high-resolution tandem mass
spectroscopy (UHPLC-HRMS/MS) analysis, and a total of 180 compounds were
identified among Iris species with (iso)flavonoid dominancy. I. pallida, I.
versicolor, and I. germanica inhibited both the quorum sensing and adhesion
during biofilm formation in a concentration-dependent manner. However, the
extracts were less active against maturated biofilms. Of the five tested species,
Iris pallida s.l. was the most effective at both inhibiting biofilm formation and
disrupting existing biofilms, and the leaf extract exhibited the strongest
inhibitory effect compared to the root and rhizome extracts. The cytotoxicity of 
the extracts was excluded in human fibroblasts. The inhibition of bacterial
adhesion significantly correlated with myristic acid content, and quorum sensing 
inhibition correlated with the 7-β-hydroxystigmast-4-en-3-one content. These
findings could be useful for establishing an effective tool for the control of
oral biofilms and thus dental diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9070403 
PMCID: PMC7399867
PMID: 32664528 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to
publish the results.

