
1. Anaerobe. 2020 Aug;64:102245. doi: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2020.102245. Epub 2020 Jul 
22.

Antimicrobial susceptibility patterns of clinically significant Gram-positive
anaerobic bacteria in a Greek tertiary-care hospital, 2017-2019.

Maraki S(1), Mavromanolaki VE(2), Stafylaki D(3), Kasimati A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Microbial Pathogenesis, University
Hospital of Heraklion, Crete, Greece. Electronic address: sofiamaraki@yahoo.gr.
(2)University of Crete Medical School, Heraklion, Crete, Greece.
(3)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Microbial Pathogenesis, University
Hospital of Heraklion, Crete, Greece.

Antimicrobial resistance among anaerobic bacteria is increasingly recognized with
geographic differences. In this study we analyzed the distribution and
antimicrobial susceptibility profiles of 358 Gram-positive clinically significant
anaerobes, isolated from 2017 to 2019, in a Greek tertiary-care hospital. The
species identification was performed by Vitek 2 and conventional biochemical
methods, and the antimicrobial susceptibility testing by the E-test method. The
antimicrobial agents tested were penicillin, ampicillin, amoxicillin-clavulanic
acid, piperacillin-tazobactam, cefoxitin, imipenem, meropenem, clindamycin,
metronidazole, moxifloxacin, chloramphenicol, tigecycline and vancomycin.
Clostridioides difficile isolates were also tested against tetracycline. The
results were interpreted using the CLSI and the EUCAST breakpoints. Clostridium
species accounted for 35.5% of the isolates, followed by Gram-positive cocci
(GPAC) (33.2%) and non-spore-forming bacilli (31.3%). Beta-lactams,
β-lactam/β-lactamase inhibitors, cefoxitin, carbapenems, chloramphenicol,
tigecycline and vancomycin proved all effective against the GPAC tested.
Clindamycin, moxifloxacin and metronidazole resistance varied among different
species of GPAC. Clindamycin and moxifloxacin resistance observed was 10% and 5% 
for Cutibacterium acnes, 25% and 6.2% for Actinomyces odontolyticus and 40% and
5% for Clostridium perfringens. C. difficile isolates were fully susceptible to
metronidazole, vancomycin, and tigecycline. Resistance rates to clindamycin,
moxifloxacin and tetracycline were 62.9%, 30% and 24.3%, respectively. These data
highlight the need for periodic surveillance to monitor changes in susceptibility
profiles.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2020.102245 
PMID: 32707228 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no conflict of interest.

