
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Aug 21;8(9). pii: E1272. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091272.

Probiotic Effects on Multispecies Biofilm Composition, Architecture, and Caries
Activity In Vitro.

Chen Z(1), Schlafer S(2), Göstemeyer G(3), Schwendicke F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Diagnostics, Digital Health and Health Services Research,
Charité-Universitätsmedizin, 14197 Berlin, Germany.
(2)Department of Dentistry and Oral Health, Aarhus University, 8000 Aarhus,
Denmark.
(3)Department of Operative and Preventive Dentistry, Charité-Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, 14197 Berlin, Germany.

While probiotics have been tested for their anti-caries effect in vitro and also 
clinically, there is a lack of understanding of their effects on complex dental
biofilms. We assessed two probiotics, Lactobacillus reuteri and Streptococcus
oligofermentans, on a continuous-cultured model containing Streptococcus mutans, 
Lactobacillus rhamnosus and Actinomyces naeslundii. Cariogenic biofilms were
grown on bovine enamel specimens and daily challenged with L. reuteri or S.
oligofermentans whole culture (LC/SC) or cell-free supernatant (LS/SS) or medium 
only (negative control, NC) (n = 21/group) for 10 days. Biofilm was assessed via 
counting colony-forming units, quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and
fluorescence in situ hybridization. Caries activity was determined by pH
measurements and by assessing mineral loss (ΔZ) using transverse
microradiography. Both LC and SC significantly reduced total and strain-specific 
cariogenic bacterial numbers (p < 0.05). ΔZ was reduced in LC (mean ± SD: 1846.67
± 317.89) and SC (3315.87 ± 617.30) compared to NC (4681.48 ± 495.18, p < 0.05). 
No significant reductions in bacterial numbers and ΔZ was induced by
supernatants. Biofilm architecture was not considerably affected by probiotic
applications. Viable probiotics L. reuteri and S. oligofermentans, but not their 
culture supernatants, could reduce the caries activity of multi-species biofilms 
in vitro.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091272 
PMID: 32825575 

