
1. Respir Med Case Rep. 2019 Oct 14;28:100950. doi: 10.1016/j.rmcr.2019.100950.
eCollection 2019.

Drastically progressive lung cavity lesion caused by Actinomyces odontolyticus in
a patient undergoing chemoradiotherapy: A case report and literature review.

Matsumoto T(1), Kusakabe Y(1), Enomoto M(1), Yamamoto N(1), Aihara K(1), Yamaoka 
S(1), Mishima M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Saiseikai-Noe Hospital, Osaka, Japan.

Pulmonary actinomycosis reportedly forms 15% of all cases of actinomycosis, and
pulmonary Actinomyces odontolyticus is particularly rare. A 60-year-old man with 
a hoarse voice was referred to our hospital. Lung squamous cell carcinoma was
diagnosed at the clinical tumor-node-metastasis stage of cT2N2M0, and concurrent 
chemoradiotherapy was initiated. Further, a small cavity was also detected in the
left upper lobe, but it was observed. During chemoradiotherapy, the small cavity 
lesion rapidly increased accompanying infiltration, and administration of
short-term antibiotics did not improve the patient's condition. Bronchoscopy did 
not show any diagnostic results. Although a rapidly progressive malignant lesion 
could not be excluded and surgical management was considered, resection could not
be performed because of the tight adhesion of the mass. Therefore, bronchoscopy
was performed again, and the bronchial lavage culture showed a positive smear for
the Actinomyces species. Further, using matrix-assisted laser
desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS), the
bacteria was identified as A. odontolyticus. After long-term administration of
amoxicillin, the lung cavity with infiltration gradually improved. To the best of
our knowledge, there have been nine cases of pulmonary A. odontolyticus
(excluding those with only empyema or pleural mass without lung lesions), which
can occur in immunocompetent patients with persistent lung shadow. None of the
cases showed drastic deterioration; therefore, the present case is the first to
highlight that A. odontolyticus possibly produce drastically progressive lung
cavity lesion. Further, repeated bronchoscopy and MALDI-TOF MS could help to
diagnose pulmonary actinomycosis.

Â© 2019 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmcr.2019.100950 
PMCID: PMC6807370
PMID: 31660290 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest.

