
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jan 31;8(2). pii: E194. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8020194.

Streptococcus mutans and Actinomyces naeslundii Interaction in Dual-Species
Biofilm.

de Oliveira RVD(1), Bonafé FSS(1), Spolidorio DMP(1), Koga-Ito CY(2), Farias
AL(1), Kirker KR(3), James GA(3), Brighenti FL(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Dentistry, São Paulo State University (UNESP), Araraquara, SP
14801-385, Brazil.
(2)São José dos Campos Institute of Science and Technology, São Paulo State
University (UNESP), São José dos Campos, SP 12245-000, Brazil.
(3)Centre for Biofilm Engineering, Montana State University, Bozeman, MT 59717,
USA.

The study of bacterial interaction between Streptococcus mutans and Actinomyces
naeslundii may disclose important features of biofilm interspecies relationships.
The aim of this study was to characterize-with an emphasis on biofilm formation
and composition and metabolic activity-single- and dual-species biofilms of S.
mutans or A. naeslundii, and to use a drip flow reactor (DFR) to evaluate biofilm
stress responses to 0.2% chlorhexidine diacetate (CHX). Single- and dual-species 
biofilms were grown for 24 h. The following factors were evaluated: cell
viability, biomass and total proteins in the extracellular matrix,
2,3-bis(2-methoxy-4-nitro-5-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium-5-carboxanilide-"XTT"-red
uction and lactic acid production. To evaluate stress response, biofilms were
grown in DFR. Biofilms were treated with CHX or 0.9% sodium chloride (NaCl;
control). Biofilms were plated for viability assessment. Confocal laser-scanning 
microscopy (CLSM) was also performed. Data analysis was carried out at 5%
significance level. S. mutans viability and lactic acid production in
dual-species biofilms were significantly reduced. S. mutans showed a higher
resistance to CHX in dual-species biofilms. Total protein content, biomass and
XTT reduction showed no significant differences between single- and dual-species 
biofilms. CLSM images showed the formation of large clusters in dual-species
biofilms. In conclusion, dual-species biofilms reduced S. mutans viability and
lactic acid production and increased S. mutans' resistance to chlorhexidine.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8020194 
PMCID: PMC7074783
PMID: 32023892 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest

