
1. Microbiol Immunol. 2020 Feb;64(2):99-112. doi: 10.1111/1348-0421.12759. Epub 2019
Dec 20.

Measuring the subgingival microbiota in periodontitis patients: Comparison of the
surface layer and the underlying layers.

Liu G(1), Chen F(2), Cai Y(1), Chen Z(1), Luan Q(1), Yu X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontology, Peking University School and Hospital of
Stomatology, Beijing, China.
(2)Central Laboratory, Peking University School and Hospital of Stomatology,
Beijing, China.

Periodontitis is a major cause of tooth loss in adults that initially results
from dental plaque. Subgingival plaque pathogenesis is affected by both community
composition and plaque structures, although limited data are available concerning
the latter. To bridge this knowledge gap, subgingival plaques were obtained using
filter paper (the fourth layer) and curette (the first-third layers) sequentially
and the phylogenetic differences between the first-third layers and the fourth
layer were characterized by sequencing the V3-V4 regions of 16S rRNA. A total of 
11 phyla, 148 genera, and 308 species were obtained by bioinformatic analysis,
and no significant differences between the operational taxonomic unit numbers
were observed for these groups. In both groups, the most abundant species were
Porphyromonas gingivalis and Fusobacterium nucleatum. Actinomyces naeslundii,
Streptococcus intermedius, and Prevotella intermedia possessed relatively high
proportions in the first-third layers; while in the fourth layer, both
traditional pathogens (Treponema denticola and Campylobacter rectus) and novel
pathobionts (Eubacterium saphenum, Filifactor alocis, Treponema sp. HOT238) were 
prominent. Network analysis showed that either of them exhibited a scale-free
property and was constructed by two negatively correlated components (the
pathogen component and the nonpathogen component), while the synergy in the
nonpathogen component was lower in the first-third layers than that in the fourth
layer. After merging these two parts into a whole plaque group, the
negative/positive correlation ratio increased. With potential connections, the
first-third layers and the fourth layer showed characteristic key nodes in
bacterial networks.

Â© 2019 The Societies and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1348-0421.12759 
PMID: 31793046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

