
1. Acta Crystallogr F Struct Biol Commun. 2020 Jan 1;76(Pt 1):8-13. doi:
10.1107/S2053230X1901642X. Epub 2020 Jan 1.

The adhesive PitA pilus protein from the early dental plaque colonizer
Streptococcus oralis: expression, purification, crystallization and X-ray
diffraction analysis.

Kumari Yadav R(1), Krishnan V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Structural Microbiology, Regional Centre for Biotechnology, NCR 
Biotech Science Cluster, Faridabad 121 001, India.

PitA is the putative tip adhesin of the pilus islet 2 (PI-2)-encoded
sortase-dependent pilus in the Gram-positive Streptococcus oralis, an
opportunistic pathogen that often flourishes within the diseased human oral
cavity. Early colonization by S. oralis and its interaction with Actinomyces oris
seeds the development of oral biofilm or dental plaque. Here, the PI-2 pilus
plays a vital role in mediating adherence to host surfaces and other bacteria. A 
recombinant form of the PitA adhesin has now been produced and crystallized.
Owing to the large size (∼100 kDa), flexibility and complicated folding of PitA, 
obtaining diffraction-quality crystals has been a challenge. However, by the use 
of limited proteolysis with α-chymotrypsin, the diffraction quality of the PitA
crystals was considerably enhanced to 2.16 Å resolution. These crystals belonged 
to space group P1, with unit-cell parameters a = 61.48, b = 70.87, c = 82.46 Å, α
= 80.08, β = 87.02, γ = 87.70°. The anomalous signal from the terbium derivative 
of α-chymotrypsin-treated PitA crystals prepared with terbium crystallophore
(Tb-Xo4) was sufficient to obtain an interpretable electron-density map via
terbium SAD phasing.

DOI: 10.1107/S2053230X1901642X 
PMCID: PMC6957113 [Available on 2022-01-01]
PMID: 31929180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

