
1. NPJ Biofilms Microbiomes. 2020 Jun 24;6(1):25. doi: 10.1038/s41522-020-0135-0.

Streptococcus mutans adhesion force sensing in multi-species oral biofilms.

Wang C(1), van der Mei HC(2), Busscher HJ(3), Ren Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthodontics, W.J. Kolff Institute, University of Groningen and 
University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, W.J. Kolff Institute, University of
Groningen and University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
h.c.van.der.mei@umcg.nl.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, W.J. Kolff Institute, University of
Groningen and University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

Bacteria utilize chemical and mechanical mechanisms to sense their environment,
to survive hostile conditions. In mechanical sensing, intra-bilayer pressure
profiles change due to deformation induced by the adhesion forces bacteria
experience on a surface. Emergent properties in mono-species Streptococcus mutans
biofilms, such as extracellular matrix production, depend on the adhesion forces 
that streptococci sense. Here we determined whether and how salivary-conditioning
film (SCF) adsorption and the multi-species nature of oral biofilm influence
adhesion force sensing and associated gene expression by S. mutans. Hereto,
Streptococcus oralis, Actinomyces naeslundii, and S. mutans were grown together
on different surfaces in the absence and presence of an adsorbed SCF. Atomic
force microscopy and RT-qPCR were used to measure S. mutans adhesion forces and
gene expressions. Upon SCF adsorption, stationary adhesion forces decreased on a 
hydrophobic and increased on a hydrophilic surface to around 8â€‰nN. Optical
coherence tomography showed that triple-species biofilms on SCF-coated surfaces
with dead S. oralis adhered weakly and often detached as a contiguous sheet.
Concurrently, S. mutans displayed no differential adhesion force sensing on
SCF-coated surfaces in the triple-species biofilms with dead S. oralis, but once 
live S. oralis were present S. mutans adhesion force sensing and gene expression 
ranked similar as on surfaces in the absence of an adsorbed SCF. Concluding, live
S. oralis may enzymatically degrade SCF components to facilitate direct contact
of biofilm inhabitants with surfaces and allow S. mutans adhesion force sensing
of underlying surfaces to define its appropriate adaptive response. This
represents a new function of initial colonizers in multi-species oral biofilms.

DOI: 10.1038/s41522-020-0135-0 
PMCID: PMC7314845
PMID: 32581220 

