
1. Biofouling. 2020 Feb;36(2):146-158. doi: 10.1080/08927014.2020.1739271. Epub 2020
Mar 17.

Effects of a sub-minimum inhibitory concentration of chlorhexidine gluconate on
the development of in vitro multi-species biofilms.

Suzuki Y(1), Ohsumi T(1), Isono T(1), Nagata R(1), Hasegawa T(1), Takenaka S(1), 
Terao Y(2), Noiri Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cariology, Operative Dentistry and Endodontics, Department of Oral
Health Science, Niigata University Graduate School of Medical and Dental
Sciences, Niigata, Japan.
(2)Division of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, Department of Oral Health
Science, Niigata University Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences,
Niigata, Japan.

Following antimicrobial administrations in oral environments, bacteria become
exposed to a sub-minimum inhibitory concentration (sub-MIC), which can induce in 
vitro single-species biofilms. This study explored the effects of chlorhexidine
gluconate (CHG) at a sub-MIC on in vitro multi-species biofilms comprising
Streptococcus mutans, Streptococcus oralis and Actinomyces naeslundii. CHG at a
sub-MIC was found to induce in vitro biofilm growth, although the bacterial
growth was not significantly different from that in the control. The gene
transcription related to S. mutans multi-species biofilm formation with CHG at a 
sub-MIC was significantly higher than that of the control, but this was not found
in S. mutans single-species biofilms. The bio-volume of extracellular
polysaccharides with CHG at a sub-MIC was significantly higher than that of the
control. This suggests that CHG at a sub-MIC may promote the development of
multi-species biofilms by affecting the gene transcription related to S. mutans
biofilm formation.

DOI: 10.1080/08927014.2020.1739271 
PMID: 32182151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

