
1. PLoS One. 2020 May 11;15(5):e0232912. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0232912.
eCollection 2020.

Confocal Raman microscopy to identify bacteria in oral subgingival biofilm
models.

Kriem LS(1), Wright K(2), Ccahuana-Vasquez RA(3), Rupp S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Fraunhofer Institute for Interfacial Engineering and Biotechnology, Stuttgart,
Germany.
(2)Procter & Gamble, Egham, England, United Kingdom.
(3)Procter & Gamble, Kronberg, Germany.

The study of oral disease progression, in relation to the accumulation of
subgingival biofilm in gingivitis and periodontitis is limited, due to either the
ability to monitor plaque in vitro. When compared, optical spectroscopic
techniques offer advantages over traditional destructive or biofilm staining
approaches, making it a suitable alternative for the analysis and continued
development of three-dimensional structures. In this work, we have developed a
confocal Raman spectroscopy analysis approach towards in vitro subgingival plaque
models. The main objective of this study was to develop a method for
differentiating multiple oral subgingival bacterial species in planktonic and
biofilm conditions, using confocal Raman microscopy. Five common subgingival
bacteria (Fusobacterium nucleatum, Streptococcus mutans, Veillonella dispar,
Actinomyces naeslundii and Prevotella nigrescens) were used and differentiated
using a 2-way orthogonal Partial Least Square with Discriminant Analysis
(O2PLS-DA) for the collected spectral data. In addition to planktonic growth,
mono-species biofilms cultured using the 'ZÃ¼rich Model' were also analyzed. The
developed method was successfully used to predict planktonic and mono-species
biofilm species in a cross validation setup. The results show differences in the 
presence and absence of chemical bands within the Raman spectra. The O2PLS-DA
model was able to successfully predict 100% of all tested planktonic samples and 
90% of all mono-species biofilm samples. Using this approach we have shown that
Confocal Raman microscopy can analyse and predict the identity of planktonic and 
mono-species biofilm species, thus enabling its potential as a technique to map
oral multi-species biofilm models.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0232912 
PMCID: PMC7213720
PMID: 32392236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest declared for
this paper beyond the affiliations of the coauthors with P&G, with Renzo Alberto 
Ccahuana-Vasquez being a recognized expert in Oral Care and Kevin Wright an R&D
microbiologist. There is no IP associated with this publication for any of the
partners and no technologies pertaining to products either in development or on
the market have been used in this work. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS
ONE policies on sharing data and materials.

