
1. J Investig Med High Impact Case Rep. 2020 Jan-Dec;8:2324709620910645. doi:
10.1177/2324709620910645.

Bacterial Endocarditis Caused by Actinomyces oris: First Reported Case and
Literature Review.

Phichaphop C(1), Apiwattanakul N(1), Wanitkun S(1), Boonsathorn S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok,
Thailand.

Actinomyces species are gram-positive, facultative anaerobic bacilli. Infection
caused by Actinomyces species is usually limited to cervicofacial, thoracic, and 
abdominopelvic regions. Infective endocarditis due to Actinomyces species is
extremely rare with only 30 reported cases since 1939. We report a case of
Actinomyces oris endocarditis in a 14-year-old boy who had a 2-week history of
dyspnea on exertion without other constitutional signs. Transthoracic
echocardiography was suggestive of perforation of the right coronary cusp of
aortic valve. No organisms were isolated from blood cultures. The patient
underwent surgical valve repair due to deteriorated cardiac function. Valve
tissue culture did not initially identify the organism. However, the terminal
subculture in a thioglycolate broth grew gram-positive bacilli. The
matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry
(MALDI-TOF MS) was compatible with Actinomyces oris. After 6 weeks of intravenous
ampicillin, the patient remained well with improved cardiac function. We reviewed
all reported cases of infective endocarditis caused by Actinomyces species,
commenting on clinical characteristics and factors associated with unfavorable
outcomes in infective endocarditis due to Actinomyces species. Although infective
endocarditis caused by Actinomyces spp is rare, it could be considered in a case 
of culture-negative endocarditis since the clinical features might be
indistinguishable from other bacterial endocarditis. Additionally, MALDI-TOF MS
is a useful diagnostic tool for the identification of Actinomyces spp to improve 
the accuracy of diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1177/2324709620910645 
PMCID: PMC7059227
PMID: 32131639 

