
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Feb 10;10(1):2217. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-58863-1.

Wild blueberry proanthocyanidins shape distinct gut microbiota profile and
influence glucose homeostasis and intestinal phenotypes in high-fat high-sucrose 
fed mice.

Rodríguez-Daza MC(1)(2), Daoust L(1)(2), Boutkrabt L(1), Pilon G(1)(3), Varin
T(1), Dudonné S(1), Levy É(1), Marette A(1)(3), Roy D(1)(2), Desjardins Y(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Nutrition and Functional Foods (INAF), Laval University, Québec, 
QC, Canada.
(2)Food Science Department, Faculty of Agriculture and Food, Laval University,
Québec, QC, Canada.
(3)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Cardiology Axis of the Quebec
Heart and Lung Institute, Québec, QC, Canada.
(4)Institute of Nutrition and Functional Foods (INAF), Laval University, Québec, 
QC, Canada. yves.desjardins@fsaa.ulaval.ca.
(5)Food Science Department, Faculty of Agriculture and Food, Laval University,
Québec, QC, Canada. yves.desjardins@fsaa.ulaval.ca.

Blueberries are a rich source of polyphenols, widely studied for the prevention
or attenuation of metabolic diseases. However, the health contribution and
mechanisms of action of polyphenols depend on their type and structure. Here, we 
evaluated the effects of a wild blueberry polyphenolic extract (WBE) (Vaccinium
angustifolium Aiton) on cardiometabolic parameters, gut microbiota composition
and gut epithelium histology of high-fat high-sucrose (HFHS) diet-induced obese
mice and determined which constitutive polyphenolic fractions (BPF) was
responsible for the observed effects. To do so, the whole extract was separated
in three fractions, F1) Anthocyanins and phenolic acids, F2) oligomeric
proanthocyanidins (PACs), phenolic acids and flavonols (PACs degree of
polymerization DP < 4), and F3) PACs polymers (PACs DP > 4) and supplied at their
respective concentration in the whole extract. After 8 weeks, WBE reduced OGTT
AUC by 18.3% compared to the HFHS treated rodents and the F3 fraction 
contributed the most to this effect. The anthocyanin rich F1 fraction did not
reproduce this response. WBE and the BPF restored the colonic mucus layer.
Particularly, the polymeric PACs-rich F3 fraction increased the mucin-secreting
goblet cells number. WBE caused a significant 2-fold higher proportion of
Adlercreutzia equolifaciens whereas oligomeric PACs-rich F2 fraction increased by
2.5-fold the proportion of Akkermansia muciniphila. This study reveals the key
role of WBE PACs in modulating the gut microbiota and restoring colonic
epithelial mucus layer, providing a suitable ecological niche for
mucosa-associated symbiotic bacteria, which may be crucial in triggering health
effects of blueberry polyphenols.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-58863-1 
PMCID: PMC7010699
PMID: 32041991 

