
1. Biomolecules. 2020 Jun 23;10(6). pii: E950. doi: 10.3390/biom10060950.

Metabolism of Soy Isoflavones by Intestinal Bacteria: Genome Analysis of an
Adlercreutzia Equolifaciens Strain That Does Not Produce Equol.

Vázquez L(1)(2), Flórez AB(1)(2), Redruello B(3), Mayo B(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiología y Bioquímica, Instituto de Productos Lácteos de 
Asturias (IPLA), Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), 33300
Villaviciosa, Spain.
(2)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del Principado de Asturias (ISPA), 33011 
Oviedo, Spain.
(3)Servicios Científico-Técnicos, Instituto de Productos Lácteos de Asturias
(IPLA), Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), 33300
Villaviciosa, Spain.

Isoflavones are transformed in the gut into more estrogen-like compounds or into 
inactive molecules. However, neither the intestinal microbes nor the pathways
leading to the synthesis of isoflavone-derived metabolites are fully known. In
the present work, 73 fecal isolates from three women with an equol-producing
phenotype were considered to harbor equol-related genes by qPCR. After typing, 57
different strains of different taxa were tested for their ability to act on the
isoflavones daidzein and genistein. Strains producing small to moderate amounts
of dihydrodaidzein and/or O-desmethylangolensin (O-DMA) from daidzein and
dihydrogenistein from genistein were recorded. However, either alone or in
several strain combinations, equol producers were not found, even though one of
the strains, W18.34a (also known as IPLA37004), was identified as Adlercreutzia
equolifaciens, a well-described equol-producing species. Analysis and comparison 
of A. equolifaciens W18.34a and A. equolifaciens DSM19450T (an equol producer
bacterium) genome sequences suggested a deletion in the former involving a large 
part of the equol operon. Furthermore, genome comparison of A. equolifaciens and 
Asaccharobacter celatus (other equol-producing species) strains from databases
indicated many of these also showed deletions within the equol operon. The
present results contribute to our knowledge to the activity of gut bacteria on
soy isoflavones.

DOI: 10.3390/biom10060950 
PMCID: PMC7355428
PMID: 32586036 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. The
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to
publish the results.

