
1. J Biochem. 2020 Jan 1;167(1):89-99. doi: 10.1093/jb/mvz083.

Purification, biochemical and molecular study of lipase producing from a newly
thermoalkaliphilic Aeribacillus pallidus for oily wastewater treatment.

Ktata A(1), Krayem N(1), Aloulou A(1), Bezzine S(1), Sayari A(1), Chamkha M(2),
Karray A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Biochimie et de Génie Enzymatique des Lipases, ENIS Route de
Soukra, km 3.5, université de Sfax-Tunisie, BP 1173 3038 Sfax, Tunisia.
(2)Centre de Biotechnologie de Sfax, Route Sidi Mansour Km 6, BP 1177 3018 Sfax, 
Tunisia.

Treatment of oily wastewater is constantly a challenge; biological wastewater
treatment is an effective, cheap and eco-friendly technology. A newly
thermostable, haloalkaline, solvent tolerant and non-induced lipase from
Aeribacillus pallidus designated as GPL was purified and characterized of
biochemical and molecular study for apply in wastewater treatment. The GPL showed
a maximum activity at 65°C and pH 10 after 22 h of incubation, with preference to
TC4 substrates. Pure enzyme was picked up after one chromatographic step. It
displayed an important resistance at high temperature, pH, NaCl, at the presence 
of detergents and organic solvents. In fact, GPL exhibited a prominent stability 
in wide range of organic solvents at 50% (v/v) concentration for 2 h of
incubation. The efficiency of the GPL in oil wastewater hydrolysis was
established at 50°C for 1 h, the oil removal efficiency was established at 96,
11% and the oil biodegradation was confirmed through fourier transform infrared
(FT-IR) spectroscopy. The gene that codes for this lipase was cloned and
sequenced and its open reading frame encoded 236 amino acid residues. The deduced
amino acids sequence of the GPL shows an important level of identity with
Geobacillus lipases.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Japanese Biochemical Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/jb/mvz083 
PMID: 31599938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

