
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Oct;77(10):2565-2574. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02010-6. Epub 
2020 May 2.

The Effect of Calcium/Magnesium Ratio on the Biomass Production of a Novel
Thermoalkaliphilic Aeribacillus pallidus Strain with Highly Heat-Resistant
Spores.

Harirchi S(1), Etemadifar Z(2), Mahboubi A(3), Yazdian F(4), Taherzadeh MJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology & Microbiology, Faculty of Biological
Science and Technology, University of Isfahan, 8174673441, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology & Microbiology, Faculty of Biological
Science and Technology, University of Isfahan, 8174673441, Isfahan, Iran.
zetemadifar@gmail.com.
(3)Swedish Centre for Resource Recovery, University of Borås, 501 90, Borås,
Sweden.
(4)Department of Life Science Engineering, Faculty of New Sciences and
Technologies, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.

Hot springs are fascinating extreme environments for the isolation of
polyextremophilic microorganisms with extraordinary characteristics. Since
polyextremophilic bacterial growth are not as high as routine bacteria, the
objective of this study was to investigate the effect of some environmental
factors on biomass and metabolites productions in the newly isolated strain, from
Larijan hot spring in Iran. The strain was identified as Aeribacillus pallidus
Lhs-10 and deposited as CCUG 72355 and IBRC-M 11202 in Sweden and Iran,
respectively. This thermoalkaliphilic strain can grow best at 50 °C, pH 8 and in 
the presence of 25 g/l NaCl. The physiological characterization of this strain
show that [Ca/Mg] ratio affect its growth and biomass production with the best
results obtained at the ratio of 2.5. Moreover, lactic and acetic acids
production by this strain was affected by pH, aeration, and temperature, where a 
metabolic shift was detected from lactate to acetate production when the culture 
was aerated. Besides, its spores could tolerate heating at 80, 85, 90, 95 and
98 °C for 30 min without any reduction in the initial spore population, whereas
D-value was defined 50 min at 98 °C. This newly lactic acid-producing strain of
A. pallidus can be a promising strain that can be used in the harsh conditions in
industrial processes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02010-6 
PMID: 32361845 

