
1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2020 Feb;189:109994. doi: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2019.109994.
Epub 2019 Nov 28.

Biodegradation of aliphatic and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons by the
thermophilic bioemulsifier-producing Aeribacillus pallidus strain SL-1.

Tao W(1), Lin J(2), Wang W(2), Huang H(3), Li S(4).

Author information: 
(1)College of Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech
University, Nanjing, 211816, PR China.
(2)Oil Production Research Institute, Shengli Oil Field Ltd. Co. SinoPEC,
Dongying, China.
(3)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing, 211816,
PR China.
(4)College of Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech
University, Nanjing, 211816, PR China. Electronic address:
lishuang@njtech.edu.cn.

The utilization of thermophilic hydrocarbon-degrading microorganisms is a
suitable strategy for improving biodegradation of petroleum hydrocarbons and
PAHs, as well as enhancing oil recovery from high-temperature reservoirs. In this
study, the thermophilic strain Aeribacillus pallidus SL-1 was evaluated for the
biodegradation of crude oil and PAHs at 60 °C. Strain SL-1 was found to
preferentially degrade short-chain n-alkanes (<C17) and aromatic hydrocarbons
from crude oil. The highest degradation rate of 84% was obtained with 1000 mg/l
naphthalene as sole carbon source. Additionally, the strain was able to degrade
80% of phenanthrene (200 mg/l) and 50% of pyrene (50 mg/l) within 5 days at
60 °C. The SL-bioemulsifier produced by strain SL-1 was identified as a
glycoprotein with stable emulsifying activity over a wide range of environmental 
conditions. Chemical composition studies exhibited that the SL-bioemulsifier
consisted of polysaccharides (65.6%) and proteins (13.1%), among them, proteins
were the major emulsifying functional substrates. Furthermore, the
SL-bioemulsifier was able to enhance the solubility of PAHs. Thus, the
bioemulsifier-producing strain SL-1 has great potential for applications in
high-temperature bioremediation.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2019.109994 
PMID: 31787385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

