
1. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2020 Apr;27(11):12755-12766. doi:
10.1007/s11356-020-07853-x. Epub 2020 Feb 1.

Enhancement of Aeribacillus pallidus strain VP3 lipase catalytic activity through
optimization of medium composition using Box-Behnken design and its application
in detergent formulations.

Ktata A(1), Karray A(2), Mnif I(3), Bezzine S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Biochimie et de Génie Enzymatique des Lipases, ENIS Route de
Soukra, Université de Sfax-Tunisia, Sfax, Tunisia.
(2)Laboratoire de Biochimie et de Génie Enzymatique des Lipases, ENIS Route de
Soukra, Université de Sfax-Tunisia, Sfax, Tunisia. karrayaida_biotech@yahoo.fr.
(3)Unité d'Enzymes et Bioconversion, Sfax, Tunisia.

Lipases are hydrolytic enzymes owing much importance in industrial applications. 
These enzyme-based detergents are ecofriendly and produce a wastewater with low
level of COD (chemical oxygen demand). In the present work, a novel halophilous, 
thermoalkaline, and detergent-tolerant lipase produced by a newly isolated
Aeribacillus pallidus strain VP3 was studied. Considerable interest has been
given to this lipase by the improvement of its catalytic activity through the
optimization of the pH, the (C/N) ratio, and the inoculum size, using the
response surface methodology based on the Box-Behnken design of experiments. A
total of 16 experiments were conducted, and the optimized pH, (C/N) ratio, and
inoculum size were 10, 1, and 0.3, respectively. The results of the analysis of
variance (ANOVA) test indicated that the established model was significant (p
value < 0.05). The optimization of the production conditions leads to 2.83-fold
of increase in the catalytic activity calculated as the ratio of the activity
obtained after optimization (68 U) and the initial activity before optimization
(24 U). All in all, the lipase of Aeribacillus pallidus could be considered as a 
potential candidate to be incorporated in detergent formulations since it shows a
good stability towards detergents and wash performance.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-020-07853-x 
PMID: 32006338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

