
1. J Proteome Res. 2020 Sep 28. doi: 10.1021/acs.jproteome.9b00708. [Epub ahead of
print]

TonB-Dependent Receptors Affect the Spontaneous Oxytetracycline Resistance
Evolution in Aeromonas hydrophila.

Li W(1)(2)(3), Zhao Y(2)(3), Yu J(2)(3), Lin L(2)(3), Ramanathan S(2)(3), Wang
G(2)(3)(4), Lin X(2)(3), Pang H(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Shenzhen Institute of Guangdong Ocean University, Shenzhen 510000, PR China.
(2)Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Agroecological Processing and Safety
Monitoring, College of Life Sciences, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University,
Fuzhou 35002, PR China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Crop Ecology and Molecular Physiology (Fujian Agriculture
and Forestry University), Fujian Province University, Fuzhou 35002, PR China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Proteomics, Beijing Proteome Research Center, National
Center for Protein Sciences (Beijing), Beijing Institute of Lifeomics, Beijing
102206, PR China.
(5)Fisheries College, Guangdong Ocean University, Guangdong Provincial Key
Laboratory of Pathogenic Biology and Epidemiology for Aquatic Economic Animals,
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Control for Diseases of Aquatic Economic Animals,
Zhanjiang 524025, PR China.

It is well known that most microbial populations develop their intrinsic
antibiotics resistance at low concentrations in antibiotics environments, but the
factors influencing spontaneous resistance are still largely unknown. In this
study, Aeromonas hydrophila strains with different resistance levels to
oxytetracycline (OXY) were induced by sublethal antibiotic selection pressure,
and differential expression of proteins was compared among them using iTRAQ-based
quantitative proteomics. Our following bioinformatic analysis showed that energy 
metabolism-related proteins were downregulated, while several iron-related
proteins were upregulated in high OXY-resistant strains. To further investigate
the role of spontaneous OXY resistance evolution, four TonB-dependent
receptor-coded genes were deleted, and their OXY susceptibility capabilities and 
antibiotic evolutionary assays were performed, respectively. Our results showed
that the deletion of these genes did not affect the susceptibility to OXY, but
showed different evolution rates in the spontaneous OXY evolution compared with
wild-type strain, especially for AHA_0971 and AHA_4251. Therefore, this study
indicates the important role of TonB-dependent receptor proteins during the
bacterial antibiotics resistance evolution and may provide a new prophylactic
strategy against the development of antibiotic resistance.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jproteome.9b00708 
PMID: 32911932 

