
1. Front Immunol. 2020 Aug 12;11:1706. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.01706. eCollection
2020.

MAp34 Regulates the Non-specific Cell Immunity of Monocytes/Macrophages and
Inhibits the Lectin Pathway of Complement Activation in a Teleost Fish.

Mu L(1), Yin X(1), Wu H(1), Han K(1), Guo Z(1), Ye J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory for Healthy and Safe Aquaculture, School
of Life Sciences, Institute of Modern Aquaculture Science and Engineering, South 
China Normal University, Guangzhou, China.

The lectin pathway of the complement system is one of the main components of
innate immunity, which plays a pivotal role in the defense against infectious
microorganisms and maintains immune homeostasis. However, its control mechanisms 
remain unclear in teleost fish. In this study, we described the identification
and functional characterization of a mannose-binding lectin associated protein
MAp34 (OnMAp34) from Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) at molecular, cellular,
and protein levels. The open reading frame (ORF) of OnMAp34 is 918 bp of
nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide of 305 amino acids. The deduced amino 
acid sequence has three characteristic structures, including two C1r/C1s-Uegf-BMP
domains (CUB) and one epidermal growth factor domain (EGF). Expression analysis
revealed that the OnMAp34 was highly expressed in the liver and widely existed in
other examined tissues. In addition, the mRNA and protein expression levels of
OnMAp34 were remarkably altered upon infection with Streptococcus agalactiae and 
Aeromonas hydrophila in vivo and in vitro. Further, we found that the OnMAp34
could participate in the non-specific cellular immune defense, including the
regulation of inflammation, migration, and enhancement of phagocytosis of
monocytes/macrophages. Moreover, the OnMAp34 could compete with OnMASPs to
combine OnMBL and inhibit the lectin pathway of complement activation. Overall,
our results provide new insights into the understanding of MAp34 as a potent
regulator in the lectin complement pathway and non-specific cell immunity in an
early vertebrate.

Copyright Â© 2020 Mu, Yin, Wu, Han, Guo and Ye.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.01706 
PMCID: PMC7435015
PMID: 32903484 

