
1. Fish Physiol Biochem. 2020 Oct;46(5):1775-1794. doi: 10.1007/s10695-020-00827-3. 
Epub 2020 Jun 9.

17β-Estradiol affects the innate immune response in common carp.

Maciuszek M(1), Pijanowski L(1), Pekala-Safinska A(2), Kemenade BMLV(3),
Chadzinska M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Evolutionary Immunology, Institute of Zoology and Biomedical
Research, Faculty of Biology, Jagiellonian University, Gronostajowa 9, PL30-387, 
Krakow, Poland.
(2)Department of Fish Diseases, National Veterinary Research Institute,
Partyzantow Avenue 57, PL24-100, Pulawy, Poland.
(3)Cell Biology and Immunology Group, Wageningen University, P.O. Box 338,
6700AH, Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Evolutionary Immunology, Institute of Zoology and Biomedical
Research, Faculty of Biology, Jagiellonian University, Gronostajowa 9, PL30-387, 
Krakow, Poland. magdalena.chadzinska@uj.edu.pl.

Inflammation is the evolutionary conserved immune response to harmful stimuli
such as pathogens or damaged cells. This multistep process acts by removing
injurious stimuli and initiating the healing process. Therefore, it must be
tightly regulated by cytokines, chemokines, and enzymes, as well as
neuroendocrine mediators. In the present work, we studied the immunoregulatory
properties of 17β-estradiol (E2) in common carp. We determined the in vitro
effects of E2 on the activity/polarization of macrophages and the in vivo effects
during Aeromonas salmonicida-induced inflammation. In vitro, E2 reduced the
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated expression of pro- and anti-inflammatory
mediator genes but did not change the gene expression of the estrogen receptors
and of aromatase CYP19. In contrast, in vivo in the head kidney of A.
salmonicida-infected fish, E2-treated feeding induced an upregulation of gene
expression of pro-inflammatory (il-12p35 and cxcb2) and anti-inflammatory
(arginase 1, arginase 2, il-10, and mmp9) mediators. Moreover, in infected fish
fed with E2-treated food, a higher gene expression of the estrogen receptors and 
of the aromatase CYP19 was found. Our results demonstrate that estrogens can
modulate the carp innate immune response, though the in vitro and in vivo effects
of this hormone are contrasting. This implies that estradiol not only induces a
direct effect on macrophages but rather exerts immunomodulatory actions through
indirect mechanisms involving other cellular targets.

DOI: 10.1007/s10695-020-00827-3 
PMCID: PMC7427712
PMID: 32519008 

