
1. Front Vet Sci. 2020 Aug 28;7:588. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2020.00588. eCollection
2020.

Bacteriophage Protects Against Aerococcus viridans Infection in a Murine Mastitis
Model.

Xi H(1), He D(1), Li D(2), Liu SS(3), Wang G(1), Ji Y(1), Wang X(1), Wang Z(1),
Bi L(1), Zhao R(1), Zhang H(1), Yang L(1), Guo Z(4), Han W(1)(5), Gu J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Zoonosis Research, Ministry of Education, College of
Veterinary Medicine, Jilin University, Changchun, China.
(2)Department of Immunology, College of Basic Medical Sciences, Jilin University,
Changchun, China.
(3)Department of Chinese Journal of Veterinary Science, Jilin University,
Changchun, China.
(4)Department of Clinical Laboratory, The First Hospital of Jilin University,
Changchun, China.
(5)Jiangsu Co-Innovation Center for the Prevention and Control of Important
Animal Infectious Disease and Zoonose, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, China.

Bovine mastitis, an inflammatory disease that occurs frequently in early
lactation or the dry period, is primarily caused by bacterial infections. There
is growing evidence that Aerococcus viridans (A. viridans) is becoming an
important cause of bovine mastitis. The treatment of bovine mastitis is primarily
based on antibiotics, which not only leads to a large economic burden but also
the development of antibiotic resistance. On the other hand, bacteriophages
present a promising alternative treatment strategy. The object of this study was 
to evaluate the potential of a previously isolated A. viridans phage vB_AviM_AVP 
(AVP) as an anti-mastitis agent in an experimental A. viridans-induced murine
mastitis model. A. viridans N14 was isolated from the milk of clinical bovine
mastitis and used to establish a mastitis model in mice. We demonstrated that
administration of phage AVP significantly reduced colony formation by A. viridans
and alleviated damage to breast tissue. In addition, reduced inflammation was
indicated by decreased levels of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6) 
and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity in the phage-treated group compared to those
in the phosphate buffered saline (PBS)-treated group. To the best of our
knowledge, this report is the first to show the potential use of phages as a
treatment for A. viridans-induced mastitis.

Copyright © 2020 Xi, He, Li, Liu, Wang, Ji, Wang, Wang, Bi, Zhao, Zhang, Yang,
Guo, Han and Gu.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2020.00588 
PMCID: PMC7485434
PMID: 33005648 

