
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jan 17;8(1). pii: E129. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8010129.

An Update on the Genus Aeromonas: Taxonomy, Epidemiology, and Pathogenicity.

Fern√°ndez-Bravo A(1), Figueras MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Microbiology, Department of Basic Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine
and Health Sciences, IISPV, University Rovira i Virgili, 43201 Reus, Spain.

The genus Aeromonas belongs to the Aeromonadaceae family and comprises a group of
Gram-negative bacteria widely distributed in aquatic environments, with some
species able to cause disease in humans, fish, and other aquatic animals.
However, bacteria of this genus are isolated from many other habitats,
environments, and food products. The taxonomy of this genus is complex when
phenotypic identification methods are used because such methods might not
correctly identify all the species. On the other hand, molecular methods have
proven very reliable, such as using the sequences of concatenated housekeeping
genes like gyrB and rpoD or comparing the genomes with the type strains using a
genomic index, such as the average nucleotide identity (ANI) or in silico DNA-DNA
hybridization (isDDH). So far, 36 species have been described in the genus
Aeromonas of which at least 19 are considered emerging pathogens to humans,
causing a broad spectrum of infections. Having said that, when classifying 1852
strains that have been reported in various recent clinical cases, 95.4% were
identified as only four species: Aeromonas caviae (37.26%), Aeromonas dhakensis
(23.49%), Aeromonas veronii (21.54%), and Aeromonas hydrophila (13.07%). Since
aeromonads were first associated with human disease, gastroenteritis, bacteremia,
and wound infections have dominated. The literature shows that the pathogenic
potential of Aeromonas is considered multifactorial and the presence of several
virulence factors allows these bacteria to adhere, invade, and destroy the host
cells, overcoming the immune host response. Based on current information about
the ecology, epidemiology, and pathogenicity of the genus Aeromonas, we should
assume that the infections these bacteria produce will remain a great health
problem in the future. The ubiquitous distribution of these bacteria and the
increasing elderly population, to whom these bacteria are an opportunistic
pathogen, will facilitate this problem. In addition, using data from outbreak
studies, it has been recognized that in cases of diarrhea, the infective dose of 
Aeromonas is relatively low. These poorly known bacteria should therefore be
considered similarly as enteropathogens like Salmonella and Campylobacter.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8010129 
PMCID: PMC7022790
PMID: 31963469 

