
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 Aug 31;335:108852. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108852. [Epub ahead of print]

Occurrence, diversity and temperature-dependent growth kinetics of Aeromonas spp.
in lettuce.

Umutoni N(1), Jakobsen AN(2), Mukhatov K(2), Thomassen GMB(2), Karlsen H(3),
Mehli L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Norwegian University of Science and Technology, NTNU, 7491 Trondheim, Norway; 
SYNLAB Analytics & Services, dep. Rørvik. Fjordgata 8, 7900 Rørvik, Norway.
Electronic address: nu@synlab.no.
(2)Norwegian University of Science and Technology, NTNU, 7491 Trondheim, Norway.
(3)Norwegian University of Science and Technology, NTNU, 7491 Trondheim, Norway. 
Electronic address: hanka@online.no.
(4)Norwegian University of Science and Technology, NTNU, 7491 Trondheim, Norway. 
Electronic address: lisbeth.mehli@ntnu.no.

Bagged, pre-cut and prewashed lettuce products are marketed as ready to eat. This
concept poses a food safety concern, due to lack of efficient hurdles to
eliminate possible microbial contaminants from the fresh produce and/or the
processing itself. Aeromonas spp. are potential foodborne pathogens that are
frequently isolated from lettuce. High counts of, e.g., A. hydrophila have been
found in retail ready-to-eat (RTE) vegetable salads. The aim of this study was to
assess the general microbiological quality, the occurrence and diversity of
potential human pathogenic mesophilic Aeromonas spp. of retail RTE lettuce
products. Additionally, temperature-dependent growth kinetic parameters of
Aerobic Plate Counts (APC) and Aeromonas spp. in one selected RTE lettuce
product, rocket lettuce, were quantified by performing storage experiments at
4 °C, 8 °C and 12 °C. The Aeromonas isolates were further characterized regarding
pathogenic traits and phylogenetic relationship. The overall hygienic quality of 
the lettuce products was unsatisfactory, as 60% of the products had an APC level 
higher than 7.0 log CFU/g. Presumptive Aeromonas spp. were detected in 52% of the
samples, levels ranging from approximately 2.0-6.0 log CFU/g. Significantly lower
counts of APC and Aeromonas spp. were found in uncut and unwashed products.
Presumptive Aeromonas spp. were able to proliferate in rocket lettuce stored at
4 °C (μmax = 0.39 ± 0.06/d and μmax = 0.43 ± 0.05/d for lettuce from producers A 
and B, respectively), and μmax was approximately 2× higher at 8 °C and 3× higher 
at 12 °C. Eighty-four percent of the collected isolates were identified as A.
media, based on partial gyrB sequencing. Additionally A. salmonicida and A.
bestiarum were detected. The pathogenic potential in this material was high, most
of the isolates harbored at least one of the toxin genes, act, ast, alt.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108852 
PMID: 32932210 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.

