
1. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2020 Sep 28. pii: S1050-4648(20)30660-4. doi:
10.1016/j.fsi.2020.09.037. [Epub ahead of print]

Stimulatory effect of dietary chasteberry (Vitex agnus-castus) extract on
immunity, some immune-related gene expression, and resistance against Aeromonas
hydrophila infection in goldfish (Carassius auratus).

Rashmeei M(1), Hosseini Shekarabi SP(2), Mehrgan MS(3), Paknejad H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Fisheries Science, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad
University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Fisheries Science, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad
University, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: m.shamsaie@srbiau.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Fisheries Science, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad
University, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: hosseini.pezhman@yahoo.com.
(4)Department of Fisheries, Faculty of Fisheries and Environmental Sciences,
Gorgan University of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, Gorgan, Iran.

Chasteberry is highly recommended as an herbal medicine across the globe for
treating of many gynaecological disorders. In this study, chasteberry extract
(CBE) was supplemented in goldfish diet to evaluate the immunity responses at the
cellular and molecular levels. Moreover, after the feeding trial, the fish were
challenged with Aeromonas hydrophila. The fish (300 individuals, 2.4 ± 0.12 g
initial weight) were randomly distributed in 12 tanks and were fed with 0
(control), 5, 10, and 15 g CBE per kg of feed for 8 weeks. Based on the results, 
lysozyme activity, alkaline phosphatase, and total immunoglobulin (Ig) in the
skin mucus samples were significantly enhanced in the fish fed with 15 g/kg CBE
(P < 0.05). Moreover, dietary CBE positively affected lysozyme activity,
complement components, and IgM content of the serum samples compared to the
control group. Also, the number of monocytes and lymphocytes were increased
significantly with increasing CBE in the diet (P < 0.05). The highest mRNA levels
of tumor necrosis factors (TNF-α, TNF-2α) and Lysozyme were observed in 15 g/kg
CBE treatment. After the challenge test, the highest relative percentage survival
value (60%) was observed in the fish fed with 15 g/kg CBE. We concluded that
dietary CBE especially at 15 g/kg has an immunomodulatory effect in goldfish by
stimulating the innate immunity and some inflammatory cytokines as well as
disease resistance against A. hydrophila.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.09.037 
PMID: 33002603 

