
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Sep 17;149:104501. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104501. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Aeromonas schubertii, a novel bacterium recovered from AHPND affected farm is
lethal to whiteleg shrimp, Penaeus vannamei.

Sangpo P(1), Thitamadee S(1), Dong HT(2), Senapin S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Science, Mahidol University, Bangkok, 
Thailand; Center of Excellence for Shrimp Molecular Biology and Biotechnology
(Centex Shrimp), Faculty of Science, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Faculty of Science and Technology, Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Bangkok,
Thailand.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Science, Mahidol University, Bangkok, 
Thailand; Center of Excellence for Shrimp Molecular Biology and Biotechnology
(Centex Shrimp), Faculty of Science, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand;
National Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (BIOTEC), National
Science and Technology Development Agency (NSTDA), Pathum Thani, Thailand.
Electronic address: saengchan@biotec.or.th.

Retrospective diagnosis of a bacterial collection (n = 31) originated from five
farms reportedly affected by early mortality syndrome (EMS) in Southeast Asia in 
2016 revealed that 9/31 isolates from two farms tested positive for V.
parahaemolyticus causing acute hepatopancreatic necrosis disease (VPAHPND).
Molecular analysis of the 22 remaining isolates showed that 21 isolates belong to
Vibrio species including VPnon-AHPND, V. vulnificus, V. cholerae, V. owensii and 
V. alginolyticus. One isolate from an AHPND farm was preliminarily identified as 
Aeromonas schubertii based on 99.43% nucleotide identity of 16S rRNA to the
reference strain ATCC 43700 (X60416). Diseases caused by Vibrio bacteria have
been well-studied in shrimp while pathogenic potential of non-Vibrio species has 
been relatively overlooked. Since the description of A. schubertii present in
shrimp farms is rare, this study therefore focused on species identification and 
its pathogenic potential to shrimp based on a combination of multiple approaches 
i.e. multilocus sequence analysis (MLSA), challenge test, histopathology and in
situ hybridization (ISH). Based on MLSA of 2464 bp derived from 16S rRNA (1346
bp), gyrB (568 bp) and rpoB (550 bp), this isolate was confirmed as A.
schubertii. Immersion challenge using three successive 10-fold serial dilutions
(2 × 104 to 2 × 106 CFU/mL) revealed that A. schubertii was pathogenic to shrimp 
and cumulative mortalities were dose-dependent (45-70%). The diseased shrimp
exhibited gross sign of reddish body and remarkable histopathological lesion of
collapsed hepatopancreatic tubules and typical encapsulation. ISH using A.
schubertii-specific probe confirmed localization of bacteria in the
hepatopancreas of the infected shrimp. In summary, this study reported a novel
pathogenic, non-Vibrio species, A. schubertii recovered from an AHPND-affected
farm causing up to 70% mortality in immersion challenge. Since A. schubertii is
relatively new to shrimp, this may pose a potential risk for low salinity shrimp 
farming areas, active surveillance of this pathogen, therefore, should not be
overlooked.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104501 
PMID: 32950638 

