
1. Access Microbiol. 2020 Mar 26;2(5):acmi000119. doi: 10.1099/acmi.0.000119.
eCollection 2020.

A case report of polymicrobial bacteremia with Weissella confusa and comparison
of previous treatment for successful recovery with a review of the literature.

Spiegelhauer MR(1), Yusibova M(1), Rasmussen IKB(2), Fuglsang KA(2), Thomsen
K(1), Andersen LP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Copenhagen University Hospital
(Rigshospitalet), Henrik Harpestrengs Vej, Copenhagen 2100, Denmark.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Copenhagen University Hospital 
(Rigshospitalet), Blegdamsvej 9, 2100 Copenhagen 2100, Denmark.

Weissella confusa is a Gram-positive coccus and a commensal bacterium of the
human gastrointestinal tract with a potential to cause invasive infections. We
report the presence of W. confusa in the blood of a 25-year-old male patient with
Crohn's disease, short bowel syndrome treated with home parenteral nutrition, and
a history of recurrent bloodstream infections, admitted to our hospital with
fever and malaise. A polymicrobial culture of W. confusa and Aeromonas hydrophila
was identified from blood, for which treatment with meropenem and metronidazole
was initiated. The literature was searched for previous cases of infection with
W. confusa . In total, 14 reports describing infection of 28 patients were found,
most cases presenting with bacteremia. The previous reports have described
variable susceptibility to antibiotics; however, all were reported to be
vancomycin resistant. Because of its similarities to other vancomycin-resistant
cocci, isolates of W. confusa might be difficult to identify with traditional
methods. Infection may be facilitated by its natural vancomycin resistance,
leading to severe infection in hosts with underlying diseases. We describe the
treatment of previous cases of infection and suggest treatment methods shown
effective in other cases. Vancomycin is often used as treatment of infection with
Gram-positive organisms, but this may need to be reevaluated, as several
pathogenic bacteria are intrinsically vancomycin resistant. A review on reported 
treatments of bacteremia by W. confusa suggests the use of daptomycin,
amoxicillin-clavulanate or piperacillin/tazobactam as recommendable antibiotic
regimens.

Â© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1099/acmi.0.000119 
PMCID: PMC7494186
PMID: 32974580 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest related
to this manuscript.

