
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Sep 12. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02183-0. [Epub ahead of
print]

Detection of Diverse N-Acyl Homoserine Lactone Signalling Molecules Among
Bacteria Associated with Rice Rhizosphere.

Viswanath G(1), Sekar J(1), Ramalingam PV(2).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology Lab, M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, 3rd Cross
Institutional Area, Taramani, Chennai, 600 113, India.
(2)Microbiology Lab, M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, 3rd Cross
Institutional Area, Taramani, Chennai, 600 113, India. prabavathyvr@mssrf.res.in.

Bacterial communities communicate, regulate and coordinate their cooperative
activities and physiological process by releasing, sensing and responding to
small diffusible signal molecules such as acyl homoserine lactones (AHLs),
auto-inducing oligo-peptides (AIPs) and autoinducer-2, a process referred to as
Quorum sensing (QS). The QS mediated communication in rhizosphere associated
bacterial communities significantly influence traits governing plant-microbe
interactions. This study aimed to identify AHL-mediated QS signals in bacterial
communities associated with rice rhizosphere using two AHL biosensors reporter
strains Chromobacterium violaceum CV026 and Agrobacterium tumefaciens NTL4
(pZLR4). Approximately 375 bacterial isolates isolated from rice rhizosphere and 
screened using both the biosensors, detected 49 (13%) AHL positive isolates. The 
BOX-Polymerase Chain reaction (BOX-PCR) fingerprinting profiles of the 49 AHL
positive isolates represented 11 distinct cluster groups. Subsequent 16S rRNA
gene sequence analysis identified 11 different species affiliated to two
different phyla; predominantly γ-proteobacteria, representing 5 genera and 1
genus in α-proteobacteria. Thin-layer chromatography (TLC) analysis detected
diverse AHL profiles among the 11 AHL positive isolates with both substituted and
unsubstituted acyl side chains of C4, C6 and C8 carbon. Further, AHL production
in Acinetobacter lactucae, Aeromonas popoffii, Serratia oryzae, and Rhizobium
wuzhouense is being reported for the first time. Detection of diverse AHLs from
different groups of rhizobacteria associated with rice indicates that these
signalling molecules may be involved in the regulation of rhizobacterial
behaviour and symbiotic plant-microbe interactions. Future research on the role
of AHLs in trans-kingdom communication particularly plant-microbe interaction
using synthetic microbial community will enable in evaluating and developing
potential plant specific bioproducts.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02183-0 
PMID: 32918570 

