
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Jul 17;10:348. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00348.
eCollection 2020.

Identification of Antimicrobial Resistance Determinants in Aeromonas veronii
Strain MS-17-88 Recovered From Channel Catfish (Ictalurus punctatus).

Tekedar HC(1), Arick MA 2nd(2), Hsu CY(2), Thrash A(2), Blom J(3), Lawrence
ML(1), Abdelhamed H(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Mississippi State University, Mississippi
State, MS, United States.
(2)Institute for Genomics, Biocomputing and Biotechnology, Mississippi State
University, Mississippi State, MS, United States.
(3)Bioinformatics & Systems Biology, Justus-Liebig-University Giessen, Giessen,
Germany.

Aeromonas veronii is a Gram-negative species ubiquitous in different aquatic
environments and capable of causing a variety of diseases to a broad host range. 
Aeromonas species have the capability to carry and acquire antimicrobial
resistance (AMR) elements, and currently multi-drug resistant (MDR) Aeromonas
isolates are commonly found across the world. A. veronii strain MS-17-88 is a MDR
strain isolated from catfish in the southeastern United States. The present study
was undertaken to uncover the mechanism of resistance in MDR A. veronii strain
MS-17-88 through the detection of genomic features. To achieve this, genomic DNA 
was extracted, sequenced, and assembled. The A. veronii strain MS-17-88 genome
comprised 5,178,226-bp with 58.6% G+C, and it encoded several AMR elements,
including imiS, ampS, mcr-7.1, mcr-3, catB2, catB7, catB1, floR, vat(F), tet(34),
tet(35), tet(E), dfrA3, and tetR. The phylogeny and resistance profile of a large
collection of A. veronii strains, including MS-17-88, were evaluated.
Phylogenetic analysis showed a close relationship between MS-17-88 and strain Ae5
isolated from fish in China and ARB3 strain isolated from pond water in Japan,
indicating a common ancestor of these strains. Analysis of phage elements
revealed 58 intact, 63 incomplete, and 15 questionable phage elements among the
53 A. veronii genomes. The average phage element number is 2.56 per genome, and
strain MS-17-88 is one of two strains having the maximum number of identified
prophage elements (6 elements each). The profile of resistance against various
antibiotics across the 53 A. veronii genomes revealed the presence of tet(34),
mcr-7.1, mcr-3, and dfrA3 in all genomes (100%). By comparison, sul1 and sul2
were detected in 7.5% and 1.8% of A. veronii genomes. Nearly 77% of strains
carried tet(E), and 7.5% of strains carried floR. This result suggested a low
abundance and prevalence of sulfonamide and florfenicol resistance genes compared
with tetracycline resistance among A. veronii strains. Overall, the present study
provides insights into the resistance patterns among 53 A. veronii genomes, which
can inform therapeutic options for fish affected by A. veronii.

Copyright Â© 2020 Tekedar, Arick, Hsu, Thrash, Blom, Lawrence and Abdelhamed.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00348 
PMCID: PMC7379393
PMID: 32766165 

