
1. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2020 Sep 21. pii: S1050-4648(20)30654-9. doi:
10.1016/j.fsi.2020.09.031. [Epub ahead of print]

S6K1/S6 axis-regulated lymphocyte activation is important for adaptive immune
response of Nile tilapia.

Li K(1), Shen X(1), Qiu H(1), Zhao T(1), Ai K(1), Li C(1), Zhang Y(1), Li K(1),
Duan M(2), Wei X(3), Yang J(4).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Estuarine and Coastal Research, School of Life
Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai, 200241, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Freshwater Ecology and Biotechnology, Institute of
Hydrobiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, 430072, Hubei, China.
Electronic address: duanming@ihb.ac.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Estuarine and Coastal Research, School of Life
Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai, 200241, China. Electronic
address: xmwei@bio.ecnu.edu.cn.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Estuarine and Coastal Research, School of Life
Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai, 200241, China; Laboratory for
Marine Biology and Biotechnology, Qingdao National Laboratory for Marine Science 
and Technology, Qingdao, 266237, China.

Ribosomal protein S6 kinase beta-1 (S6K1) is a serine/threonine kinase downstream
of the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway, and plays crucial roles in
immune regulation. Although remarkable progress has been achieved with a mouse
model, how S6K1 regulates adaptive immunity is largely unknown in early
vertebrates. In this study, we identified an S6K1 from Nile tilapia Oreochromis
niloticus (OnS6K1), and further investigated its potential regulatory role on the
adaptive immunity of this fish species. Both sequence and structure of OnS6K1
were highly conserved with its homologs from other vertebrates and invertebrates.
OnS6K1 was widely expressed in immune tissues, and with a relative higher
expression level in the liver, spleen and head kidney. At the adaptive immune
stage of Nile tilapia that infected with Aeromonas hydrophila, mRNA expression of
OnS6K1 and its downstream effector S6 was significantly up-regulated in spleen
lymphocytes. Meanwhile, their phosphorylation level was also enhanced during this
process, suggesting that S6K1/S6 axis participated in the primary response of
anti-bacterial adaptive immunity in Nile tilapia. Furthermore, after spleen
lymphocytes were activated by the T cell-specific mitogen PHA or lymphocytes
agonist PMA in vitro, mRNA and phosphorylation levels of S6K1 were elevated, and 
phosphorylation of S6 was also enhanced. Once S6K1 activity was blocked by a
specific inhibitor, both mRNA and phosphorylation levels of S6 were severely
impaired. More importantly, blockade of S6K1/S6 axis reduced the expression of T 
cell activation marker IFN-γ and CD122 in PHA-activated spleen lymphocytes,
indicating the essential role of S6K1/S6 axis in regulating T cell activation of 
Nile tilapia. Together, our study suggests that S6K1 and its effector S6 regulate
lymphocyte activation of Nile tilapia, and in turn promote lymphocyte-mediated
adaptive immunity. This study enriched the mechanism of adaptive immune response 
in teleost and provided useful clues to understand the evolution of adaptive
immune system.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.09.031 
PMID: 32971270 

