
1. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2020 Oct 1. pii: S1050-4648(20)30663-X. doi:
10.1016/j.fsi.2020.09.040. [Epub ahead of print]

A commercial autogenous injection vaccine protects ballan wrasse (Labrus
bergylta, Ascanius) against Aeromonas salmonicida VAPA type V.

Gustavo Ramirez-Paredes J(1), Verner-Jeffreys D(2), Papadopoulou A(3), Monaghan
SJ(3), Smith L(2), Haydon D(4), Wallis TS(4), Davie A(3), Adams A(3), Migaud
H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Aquaculture, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling,
Stirling, Scotland, FK9 4LA, UK; Ridgeway Biologicals Ltd. a Ceva Santé Animale
Company, Units 1-3 Old Station Business Park, Compton, Berkshire, England, RG20
6NE, UK.
(2)Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science, Barrack Road - the 
Nothe, Weymouth, Dorset, England, DT4 8UB, UK.
(3)Institute of Aquaculture, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling,
Stirling, Scotland, FK9 4LA, UK.
(4)Ridgeway Biologicals Ltd. a Ceva Santé Animale Company, Units 1-3 Old Station 
Business Park, Compton, Berkshire, England, RG20 6NE, UK.
(5)Institute of Aquaculture, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling,
Stirling, Scotland, FK9 4LA, UK. Electronic address: herve.migaud@stir.ac.uk.

Atypical Aeromonas salmonicida (aAs) and Vibrionaceae related species are
bacteria routinely recovered from diseased ballan wrasse used as cleaner fish in 
Atlantic salmon farming. Autogenous (i.e. farm specific inactivated) multivalent 
vaccines formulated from these microorganisms are widely used by the industry to 
protect farmed wrasse despite limited experimental proof that they are primary
pathogens. In this study, the components of a commercial multivalent injection
vaccine containing four strains of Aeromonas salmonicida and one strain of Vibrio
splendidus previously isolated from ballan wrasse in Scotland, were tested for
infectivity, pathogenicity and virulence via intra peritoneal injection at
pre-deployment size (25-50g) and the efficacy of the vaccine for protection
against aAs assessed. Injection with 3.5 × 109, 8 × 109 1.8 × 109 and
5 × 109 cfu/fish of Vibrio splendidus, V. ichthyoenteri, Aliivibrio logeii and A.
salmonicida, respectively, did not cause significant mortalities, lesions or
clinical signs after a period of 14 days. IP injection with both aAs and
Photobacterium indicum successfully reproduced the clinical signs and internal
lesions observed during natural outbreaks of the disease. Differences in
virulence (LD50 at day 8-post infection of 3.6 × 106 cfu/fish and
1.6 × 107 cfu/fish) were observed for two aAs vapA type V isolates. In addition, 
the LD50 for Photobacterium indicum was 2.2 × 107 cfu/fish. The autogenous
vaccine was highly protective against the two aAs vapA type V isolates after
700-degree days of immunisation. The RPSFINAL values for the first isolate were
95 and 91% at 1 × 106 cfu/fish and 1 × 107 cfu/fish, respectively, and 79% at
1 × 107 cfu/fish for the second isolate tested. In addition, significantly higher
anti aAs seral antibodies (IgM), were detected by ELISA in vaccinated fish in
contrast with control (mock vaccinated) fish. These results suggest wrasse can be
effectively immunised and protected against aAs infection by injection with oil
adjuvanted vaccines prepared with inactivated homologous isolates.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.09.040 
PMID: 33011432 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no conflicts of interests.

