
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Sep 28;10(1):15859. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-72816-8.

Effect of very low-protein diets supplemented with branched-chain amino acids on 
energy balance, plasma metabolomics and fecal microbiome of pigs.

Spring S(1), Premathilake H(1), Bradway C(1), Shili C(1), DeSilva U(1), Carter
S(1), Pezeshki A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal and Food Sciences, Oklahoma State University, 206C Animal
Science Building, Stillwater, OK, 74078, USA.
(2)Department of Animal and Food Sciences, Oklahoma State University, 206C Animal
Science Building, Stillwater, OK, 74078, USA. adel.pezeshki@okstate.edu.

Feeding pigs with very-low protein (VLP) diets while supplemented with limiting
amino acids (AA) results in decreased growth. The objective of this study was to 
determine if supplementing VLP diets with branched-chain AA (BCAA) would reverse 
the negative effects of these diets on growth and whether this is associated with
alterations in energy balance, blood metabolomics and fecal microbiota
composition. Twenty-four nursery pigs were weight-matched, individually housed
and allotted into following treatments (n = 8/group): control (CON), low protein 
(LP) and LP supplemented with BCAA (LP + BCAA) for 4 weeks. Relative to CON, pigs
fed with LP had lower feed intake (FI) and body weight (BW) throughout the study,
but those fed with LP + BCAA improved overall FI computed for 4 weeks, tended to 
increase the overall average daily gain, delayed the FI and BW depression
for ~ 2 weeks and had transiently higher energy expenditure. Feeding pigs with
LP + BCAA impacted the phenylalanine and protein metabolism and fatty acids
synthesis pathways. Compared to CON, the LP + BCAA group had higher abundance of 
Paludibacteraceae and Synergistaceae and reduced populations of Streptococcaceae,
Oxyphotobacteria_unclassified, Pseudomonadaceae and Shewanellaceae in their
feces. Thus, supplementing VLP diets with BCAA temporarily annuls the adverse
effects of these diets on growth, which is linked with alterations in energy
balance and metabolic and gut microbiome profile.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-72816-8 
PMCID: PMC7523006
PMID: 32985541 

