
1. BMC Infect Dis. 2020 Sep 4;20(1):651. doi: 10.1186/s12879-020-05382-z.

Early clinical predictors for the prognosis of invasive pneumococcal disease.

Wu S(1), Guo X(1), Xu Z(1), Han M(1), Huang L(2), Tao Y(2), Li Y(1), Li Y(3),
Zhang T(4), Bai Z(5).

Author information: 
(1)Pediatric Intensive Care Unit, Children's Hospital of Soochow University,
Suzhou, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Laboratory department, Children's Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou,
Jiangsu, China.
(3)Nephrology department, Children's Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou,
Jiangsu, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Public Health Safety, Ministry of Education-department of
Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(5)Pediatric Intensive Care Unit, Children's Hospital of Soochow University,
Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. doctor1219@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Risk factors related to mortality due to invasive pneumococcal
disease (IPD) have been unveiled previously, but early clinical manifestations of
IPD based on prognosis remain uncovered.
METHODS: The demographic characteristics, clinical features, serotype, antibiotic
susceptibility, and outcomes of 97 hospitalized children with
laboratory-confirmed IPD from Suzhou, China, were collected and analyzed
retrospectively.
RESULTS: The median age was 0.69 (0.49-1.55) years in the non-survivor group
compared with 2.39 (0.90-3.81) years in the survivor group. The mortality of 97
children with laboratory-confirmed IPD was 17.5% (17/97), and 53.6% of them were 
aged less than 2â€‰years. Pathogens were mainly from the blood and cerebrospinal
fluid, and sepsis was the most frequent type. Statistically significant
differences were found in hyperpyrexia, vomiting, anorexia, lethargy, poor
perfusion of extremities, Hb level, and Plt count between the nonsurvival and
survival groups. Further, the multivariate regression analysis showed that early 
signs, including hyperpyrexia, vomiting, anorexia, lethargy, and poor perfusion
of extremities, were independent risk factors for the in-hospital mortality of
children with laboratory-confirmed IPD. The mortality was also associated with
antimicrobial sensitivity in pneumococcal isolates. The microbes in 1/17 (5.9%)
children who were prescribed an antibiotic showed antimicrobial sensitivity in
the nonsurvival group, compared with 21/80 (26.3%) children who survived. The
most common serotypes identified were 6B (35.3%, 6/17), 14 (23.5%, 4/17), 19F
(23.5%, 4/17), 19A (5.9%, 1/17), 23F (5.9%, 1/17), and 20 (5.9%, 1/17) in the
nonsurvival group. The coverage of IPD serotypes of the 7-valent pneumococcal
conjugate vaccine (PCV7) was 88.2% (15/17), while that of the 13-valent S.
pneumoniae vaccine (PCV13) was 94.1% (16/17) of the coverage in the nonsurvival
group.
CONCLUSIONS: Recurrent hyperpyrexia, vomiting, anorexia, lethargy, and poor
perfusion of extremities in the early stage were independent predictors for the
in-hospital mortality of children with laboratory-confirmed IPD. Appropriate use 
of antibiotics and PCV immunization were the keys to improve the outcome of IPD.

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-020-05382-z 
PMID: 32887563  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

