
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Aug;145:104226. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104226. Epub 2020
Apr 27.

Large-scale identification of trans-translation substrates targeted by tmRNA in
Aeromonas veronii.

Peng M(1), Cao X(1), Tang Y(1), Li H(1), Ma X(2), Liu Z(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Tropical Biological Resources of Ministry of Education,
School of Life and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hainan University, 570228, Haikou,
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Tropical Biological Resources of Ministry of Education,
School of Life and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hainan University, 570228, Haikou,
China. Electronic address: 993034@hainanu.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Tropical Biological Resources of Ministry of Education,
School of Life and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hainan University, 570228, Haikou,
China. Electronic address: zhuliu@hainanu.edu.cn.

Transfer-messenger RNA (tmRNA) is ubiquitous in bacteria, acting as the core
component for the trans-translation system that contributes to label the
aberrantly synthesized peptides for degradation and to release the stalled
ribosomes. Deletion of tmRNA causes a variety of phenotypes related to important 
physiological processes in bacteria. To illustrate the molecular mechanism of the
versatility of tmRNA in aquatic pathogen Aeromonas veronii, we mutated the
C-terminal nucleotides of tmRNA (MutmRNA) for encoding a tag containing six
histidine residues (His6tag), so as to capture and enrich the trans-translation
substrates from the cell lysates through a Ni2+-NTA affinity chromatograph. The
results showed that the concentrated substrates were detected as distinct and
specific bands in western blotting using anti-His antibody, demonstrating that
specific defective mRNAs were frequently and intensively rescued by
trans-translation during the translation process in A. veronii. The substrates
were analyzed by LC-MS/MS and further identified by searching a theoretically
constructed database specific for A. veronii. Total of 24 potential substrates
were identified, with various functions involved in metabolism, as well as
structure and signal-based cellular events. Among the identified substrates, PspA
and AsmA were labeled by Flag, and expressed in the presence of the modified
trans-translation system in E. coli. Their labelings with MutmRNA were validated 
by purification through Ni2+-NTA column followed by western blotting using
anti-Flag antibody. This study provided the most abundant set of endogenous
targets for tmRNA in A. veronii, and facilitated further investigations about the
molecular mechanism and signal pathway of tmRNA-mediated trans-translation.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104226 
PMID: 32353577 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest No conflicts of
interest statement for this article.

