
1. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2020 Sep;104:497-505. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.05.068.
Epub 2020 Jun 10.

Identification and characterization of cystatin B from black rockfish, Sebastes
schlegelii, indicating its potent immunological importance.

Wickramasinghe PDSU(1), Kwon H(2), Elvitigala DAS(3), Wan Q(2), Lee J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Marine Life Sciences & Fish Vaccine Research Center, Jeju
National University, Jeju Self-Governing Province, 63243, Republic of Korea;
Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Colombo, Colombo-03,
Sri Lanka.
(2)Department of Marine Life Sciences & Fish Vaccine Research Center, Jeju
National University, Jeju Self-Governing Province, 63243, Republic of Korea;
Marine Science Institute, Jeju National University, Jeju Self-Governing Province,
63333, Republic of Korea.
(3)Dept. of Basic Science and Social Sciences for Nursing, Faculty of Nursing,
University of Colombo, Thalapathpitiya, Nugegoda, 10250, Sri Lanka. Electronic
address: anushka@dss.cmb.ac.lk.
(4)Department of Marine Life Sciences & Fish Vaccine Research Center, Jeju
National University, Jeju Self-Governing Province, 63243, Republic of Korea;
Marine Science Institute, Jeju National University, Jeju Self-Governing Province,
63333, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: jehee@jejunu.ac.kr.

Cystatins represent a large superfamily of proteins involved in the competitive
reversible inhibition of C1 class cysteine proteases. Plant-derived papain
proteases and cysteine cathepsins are the major cysteine proteases that interact 
with cystatins. The cystatin superfamily can be further classified into three
groups: stefins, cystatins, and kininogens. Among these, cystatin B is
categorized under stefins. Cystatin B lacks a signal sequence, disulfide bonds,
and carbohydrate groups. However, it contains the conserved cystatin family
signature, including a single cystatin-like domain, cysteine protease inhibitory 
signature concealing pentapeptide (QXVXG) consensus sequence, and two conserved
neighboring glycine (8GG9) residues at the N-terminal. In the current study, a
member of cystatin B was identified from Korean black rockfish (Sebastes
schlegeli) using a cDNA database and designated as RfCytB. The full-length cDNA
of RfCytB was 573 bp long, with a coding region of 294 bp. The 5'-untranslated
region (UTR) comprised 55 bp, and the 263-bp-long 3'-UTR included a
polyadenylation signal sequence and a poly-A tail. The coding sequence encodes a 
polypeptide comprising 97 amino acids, with a predicted molecular weight of
11 kDa and theoretical isoelectric point of 6.3. RfCytB shared homology features 
with similar molecules from other teleost and vertebrate species, and was
clustered with Cystatin family 1 in our phylogenetic reconstruction. RfCytB was
ubiquitously expressed in all tissue types of healthy animals, with the highest
levels of expression observed in gill and spleen. Temporal expression of RfCytB
displayed significant up-regulation upon infection with Aeromonas salmonicida.
Recombinantly expressed RfCytB showed a concentration-dependent inhibitory
activity towards papain, with a high thermal stability. Transient expression of
RfCytB in LPS activated murine macrophages, thereby inducing the expression of
genes related to pro-inflammatory conditions, such as iNOS and TNF α. These
results provide evidence for its protease inhibitory and immunity relevant roles 
in hosts.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.05.068 
PMID: 32534230 

