
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Oct;147:104348. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104348. Epub 2020
Jun 17.

Advantage of zinc oxide nanoparticles over silver nanoparticles for the
management of Aeromonas veronii infection in Xiphophorus hellerii.

Das S(1), Aswani R(1), Midhun SJ(1), Radhakrishnan EK(1), Mathew J(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biosciences, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, 686560, India.
(2)School of Biosciences, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, 686560, India.
Electronic address: prof.dr.jyothismathew@gmail.com.

Bacterial pathogens cause significant challenge to the ornamental fish industry. 
Eventhough antibiotic administration has been recommended to manage fish
diseases, there is alarming concern with emergence of antibiotic resistance. This
indicates the need for the development of alternative methods with multi-targeted
action to manage fish diseases. In the study, silver (AgNPs) and zinc oxide
(ZnONPs) nanoparticles have been evaluated for its activity against Aeromonas
veronii. Both the AgNPs and ZnONPs were found to have bactericidal activity
against A. veronii. In vivo experiments with A. veronii was found to cause severe
mortality in Xiphophorus hellerii with a LD50 of 1.4 × 108 CFU/mL. However,
treatment with AgNPs and ZnONPs each at a concentration of 1 mg/L was found to
enhance the survival rate of X. hellerii to 83.3% and 100% respectively. Further 
histopathological analysis showed alterations in gill, intestine and liver of X. 
hellerii due to A. veronii in the infection control. In the case of AgNPs treated
group, symptoms of moderate tissue damage could be observed. However, the ZnONPs 
treated X. hellerii showed normal histological features with minimum tissue
damage. The bath dip method further confirmed the protective ability of the zinc 
oxide nanoparticles (1 mg/L) on X. hellerii.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104348 
PMID: 32561418 

