
1. Nat Commun. 2020 Aug 31;11(1):4365. doi: 10.1038/s41467-020-18134-z.

Entropy of a bacterial stress response is a generalizable predictor for fitness
and antibiotic sensitivity.

Zhu Z(1), Surujon D(1), Ortiz-Marquez JC(1), Huo W(2), Isberg RR(2), Bento J(3), 
van Opijnen T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA, 02467, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology and Microbiology, Tufts University School of
Medicine, Boston, MA, 02111, USA.
(3)Computer Science Department, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA, 02467, USA.
(4)Biology Department, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA, 02467, USA.
vanopijn@bc.edu.

Current approaches explore bacterial genes that change transcriptionally upon
stress exposure as diagnostics to predict antibiotic sensitivity. However,
transcriptional changes are often specific to a species or antibiotic, limiting
implementation to known settings only. While a generalizable approach, predicting
bacterial fitness independent of strain, species or type of stress, would
eliminate such limitations, it is unclear whether a stress-response can be
universally captured. By generating a multi-stress and species RNA-Seq and
experimental evolution dataset, we highlight the strengths and limitations of
existing gene-panel based methods. Subsequently, we build a generalizable method 
around the observation that global transcriptional disorder seems to be a common,
low-fitness, stress response. We quantify this disorder using entropy, which is a
specific measure of randomness, and find that in low fitness cases increasing
entropy and transcriptional disorder results from a loss of regulatory
gene-dependencies. Using entropy as a single feature, we show that fitness and
quantitative antibiotic sensitivity predictions can be made that generalize well 
beyond training data. Furthermore, we validate entropy-based predictions in 7
species under antibiotic and non-antibiotic conditions. By demonstrating the
feasibility of universal predictions of bacterial fitness, this work establishes 
the fundamentals for potentially new approaches in infectious disease
diagnostics.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-18134-z 
PMCID: PMC7458919
PMID: 32868761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

