
1. Anim Sci J. 2020 Jan;91(1):e13441. doi: 10.1111/asj.13441.

Examination of milk microbiota, fecal microbiota, and blood metabolites of Jersey
cows in cool and hot seasons.

Nguyen QD(1), Tsuruta T(1), Nishino N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Environmental and Life Science, Okayama University,
Okayama, Japan.

Microbiota of individual cow milk, bulk tank milk, and feces of Jersey cows were 
examined. Samples were collected from two farms (F1 and F2) in cool (November,
Nov) and hot (July, Jul) seasons. Milk yield and milk composition were similar
between the two farms and between the two seasons. Prevalent taxa of the fecal
microbiota, i.e. Ruminococcaceae, Bacteroidaceae, Lachnospiraceae, Rikenellaceae,
and Clostridiaceae, were unaffected by the farm and season. Relative abundance of
milk microbiota for Pseudomonadaceae, Enterobacteriaceae, and Streptococcaceae
(F1 > F2) and Lactobacillaceae, Bifidobacteriaceae, and Cellulomonadaceae
(F1 < F2) were different between the two farms, and those for Staphylococcaceae, 
Bacillaceae, Ruminococcaceae, and Veillonellaceae (Nov < Jul) and
Methylobacteriaceae and Moraxellaceae (Nov > Jul) were different between the two 
seasons. The microbiota of bulk tank milk was numerically different from that of 
individual cow milk. Principal coordinate analysis indicated that the milk
microbiota was unrelated to the fecal microbiota. The finding that relative
abundance of Pseudomonadaceae and Moraxellaceae appeared greater than those
reported for Holstein milk suggested that higher protein and fat content may
result in a greater abundance of proteolytic and lipolytic taxa in Jersey cow
milk.

© 2020 Japanese Society of Animal Science.

DOI: 10.1111/asj.13441 
PMID: 32885570 

