
1. Fish Physiol Biochem. 2020 Aug 23. doi: 10.1007/s10695-020-00864-y. [Epub ahead
of print]

Nano spirulina dietary supplementation augments growth, antioxidative and
immunological reactions, digestion, and protection of Nile tilapia, Oreochromis
niloticus, against Aeromonas veronii and some physical stressors.

Elabd H(1), Wang HP(2), Shaheen A(3), Matter A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Aquatic Animals Diseases and Management Department, Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, Benha University, Moshtohor, Toukh, 13736, Egypt.
hayam.eed@fvtm.bu.edu.eg.
(2)Ohio Center for Aquaculture Research and Development, The Ohio State
University South Centers, 1864 Shyville Road, Piketon, OH, 45661, USA.
wang.900@osu.edu.
(3)Aquatic Animals Diseases and Management Department, Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, Benha University, Moshtohor, Toukh, 13736, Egypt.

The current study evaluated the effects of nano delivery of Spirulina platensis
on growth performance, digestive enzymes, and biochemical, immunological, and
antioxidative status, as well as resistance to Aeromonas veronii and some
physical stressor challenges in Nile tilapia, Oreochromis niloticus. Three
experimental fish groups (n = 270) with mean weights of 26 ± 0.30 g and mean
lengths of 10 ± 0.5 cm were used; the first additive-free basal diet served as
the control group, whereas the following two groups were supplemented with
spirulina nanoparticles (SPNP) at 0 (control), 0.25, and 0.5%/kg diet for 4
weeks. Following the feeding trial, fish were challenged with hypoxia, cold
stresses, and pathogenic bacteria (A. veronii) infection (9 × 108 CFU/ml). SPNP
supplementation, especially 0.5%, (p < 0.05) significantly increased growth
performance (specific growth rate % day-1, feed conversion ratio, and length gain
rate %), immunological (plasma lysozyme and liver nitrous oxide) antioxidants
(superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase in liver),
biochemical (aspartate aminotransferase, alanine transaminase, glucose, and
cortisol concentrations in plasma) assays, and digestive enzymes (lipase and
amylase in plasma). The expression of liver's heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) and
interleukin 1, beta (IL-1β) genes showed a significant upregulation outline of
0.5% SPNP > 0.25% SPNP > 0% SPNP compared with the control. Protection in the
incorporated fish groups exposed to A. veronii was 100% compared with the control
group, which showed 50% cumulative mortalities. In conclusion, dietary SPNP
supplementation improved growth performance, antioxidant activity, immune
response, digestive enzymes, related gene expression, and resistance of Nile
Tilapia to hypoxia, cold, and A. veronii infection. Thus, SPNP could be used as a
natural therapy for controlling those stressors.

DOI: 10.1007/s10695-020-00864-y 
PMID: 32829476 

