
1. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2020 Oct;71(4):337-344. doi: 10.1111/lam.13341. Epub 2020
Jul 8.

Characterization of co-culture of Aeromonas and Pseudomonas bacterial biofilm and
spoilage potential on refrigerated grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idellus).

Zhang C(1), Zhu F(1), Jatt AN(2), Liu H(1), Niu L(1), Zhang L(1), Liu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Food Engineering, Ludong University, Yantai, China.
(2)Institute of Microbiology, University of Sindh, Jamshoro, Pakistan.

Aeromonas and Pseudomonas are important bacterial species involved in spoilage of
refrigerated freshwater fish. In this study, 10 Aeromonas and seven Pseudomonas
bacterial strains were isolated from spoiled grass carp and identified. Twelve of
seventeen bacterial strains showed high potential of biofilm formation and 14 of 
17 can produce extracellular protease. In order to explore the spoilage capacity 
of dual-species, the sterile grass carp fillets were inoculated with mono- and
dual-species of Aeromonas salmonicida and Pseudomonas azotoformans strains. The
results revealed significantly higher levels of the total viable count and total 
volatile basic nitrogen in dual-species as compared to mono-species from day 6.
The higher contents of histamine, cadaverine and serious degradation in muscles
tissue were also observed in dual-species after 10 days of storage. Results of in
vitro experiments showed that the co-culture of A. salmonicida and P.
azotoformans significantly increased the bacterial maximum growth rate, promoted 
the biofilm formation and improved the spoilage capacity of bacterial strains.
This study has revealed that the co-culture of Aeromonas and Pseudomonas
bacterial strains accelerated spoilage process of grass carp and increased
biofilm formation. It indicates that the mixed-cultures of spoilage
micro-organisms pose a huge threat to food industry.

© 2020 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.13341 
PMID: 32542738 

