
1. Toxins (Basel). 2020 Sep 7;12(9). pii: E575. doi: 10.3390/toxins12090575.

Wound Infections of Snakebites from the Venomous Protobothrops mucrosquamatus and
Viridovipera stejnegeri in Taiwan: Bacteriology, Antibiotic Susceptibility, and
Predicting the Need for Antibiotics-A BITE Study.

Lin CC(1)(2), Chen YC(3)(4), Goh ZNL(5), Seak CK(5), Seak JC(5), Shi-Ying G(1),
Seak CJ(1)(2)(6), Spot Investigators(1)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Lin-Kou Medical Center, Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital, Taoyuan 33305, Taiwan.
(2)College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan 33302, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Emergency medicine, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei
11217, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Emergency Medicine, School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming
University, Taipei 11221, Taiwan.
(5)Sarawak General Hospital, Kuching, Sarawak 93586, Malaysia.
(6)Department of Emergency Medicine, New Taipei Municipal Tucheng Hospital, New
Taipei City 23652, Taiwan.

Snakebites from Taiwan habus (Protobothrops mucrosquamatus) and green bamboo
vipers (Viridovipera stejnegeri) account for two-thirds of all venomous
snakebites in Taiwan. While there has been ongoing optimization of antivenin
therapy, the proper management of superimposed bacterial wound infections is not 
well studied. In this Bacteriology of Infections in Taiwanese snake Envenomation 
(BITE) study, we investigated the prevalence of wound infection, bacteriology,
and corresponding antibiotic usage in patients presenting with snakebites from
these two snakes. We further developed a BITE score to evaluate the probability
of wound infections and guide antibiotic usage in this patient population. All
snakebite victims who presented to the emergency departments of seven training
and research hospitals and received at least one vial of freeze-dried hemorrhagic
antivenin between January 2001 and January 2017 were identified. Patient biodata,
laboratory investigation results, and treatment modalities were retrieved. We
developed our BITE score via univariate and multiple logistic regression
analyses. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was plotted to
evaluate the predictive performance of the BITE score. Out of 8,295,497 emergency
department visits, 726 patients presented with snakebites from a Taiwan habu or a
green bamboo viper. The wound infection rate was 22.45%, with seven positive
wound cultures, including six polymicrobial infections. Morganella morganii,
Enterococcus spp., Bacteroides fragilis, and Aeromonas hydrophila were most
frequently cultured. There were no positive blood cultures. A total of 33.0% (n =
106) of snakebite patients who received prophylactic antibiotics nevertheless
developed wound infections, while 44.8% (n = 73) of wound infection patients were
satisfactorily treated with one of the following antibiotics:
amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, oxacillin, cefazolin, and ampicillin/sulbactam. With
the addition of gentamicin, the success of antibiotic therapy increased by up to 
66.54%. The prognostic factors for the secondary bacterial infection of
snakebites were white blood cell counts, the neutrophil lymphocyte ratio, and the
need for hospital admission. The area under the ROC curve for the BITE score was 
0.839. At the optimal cut-off point of 5, the BITE score had a 79.58% accuracy,
82.31% sensitivity, and 79.71% specificity when predicting infection in snakebite
patients. Our BITE score may help with antibiotic stewardship by guiding
appropriate antibiotic use in patients presenting with snakebites. It may also be
employed in further studies into antibiotic prophylaxis in snakebite patients for
the prevention of superimposed bacterial wound infections.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins12090575 
PMID: 32906845 

