
1. Dev Comp Immunol. 2020 Dec;113:103779. doi: 10.1016/j.dci.2020.103779. Epub 2020 
Jul 29.

The immune response of a warm water fish orange-spotted grouper (Epinephelus
coioides) infected with a typical cold water bacterial pathogen Aeromonas
salmonicida is AhR dependent.

Huang L(1), Qi W(2), Zuo Y(2), Alias SA(3), Xu W(4).

Author information: 
(1)Fisheries College, Fujian Engineering Research Center of Aquatic Breeding and 
Healthy Aquaculture, Jimei University, Xiamen, Fujian, PR China. Electronic
address: lixinghuang@outlook.com.
(2)Fisheries College, Key Laboratory of Healthy Mariculture for the East China
Sea, Ministry of Agriculture, Jimei University, Xiamen, Fujian, PR China.
(3)Institute of Ocean and Earth Science (IOES), C308, Institute of Postgraduate
Studies Building, University of Malaya, 50603, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(4)Third Institute of Oceanography, Ministry of Natural Resources, Xiamen,
361005, PR China. Electronic address: xuwei@tio.org.cn.

The present study reported the first pathogenic Aeromonas salmonicida (SRW-OG1)
isolated from the warm water fish orange-spotted grouper (Epinephelus coioides), 
and investigated the function of Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), a
ligand-dependent transcriptional factor which has been recently found to be
closely associated with immune response in mammals and E. coioides. Our results
showed that AhR was activated by an unknown ligand in the spleen, intestine and
macrophages. Meanwhile, ahr1a and ahr1b were significantly increased in the
spleen, intestine and macrophages, whereas ahr2 was only increased in the
intestine, which indicated that the contribution of AhR2 to the immune response
may be less than that of AhR1a and AhR1b. Some key genes involved in the
macrophage inflammatory response, bacterial recognition, and intestinal immunity 
were significantly up-regulated in the SRW-OG1 infected E. coioides.
Nevertheless, declining macrophage ROS production and down-regulation of related 
genes were also observed, suggesting that SRW-OG1 utilized its virulence
mechanisms to prevent macrophage ROS production. Furthermore, AhR inhibitor 3',
4'-DMF and the silence of ahr1a or ahr1b significantly rescued the increased
IL-1β and IL-8 induced by SRW-OG1 infection, which proved that the induction of
IL-1β and IL-8 in E. coioides macrophages was mediated by AhR. However, BPI/LBP, 
ROS production and related genes were not affected by AhR. The survival rate and 
immune escape rate of SRW-OG1 in the ahr1a/ahr1b knocked-down and 3', 4'-DMF
treated macrophages were significantly increased compared with those in wild type
macrophages. Taken together, it was preliminarily confirmed that ahr1a and ahr1b 
played an important role in the immune response against A. salmonicida SRW-OG1.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dci.2020.103779 
PMID: 32735958 

