
1. Dis Aquat Organ. 2020 Jul 2;140:47-54. doi: 10.3354/dao03489.

Atypical Aeromonas salmonicida vapA type V and Vibrio spp. are predominant
bacteria recovered from ballan wrasse Labrus bergylta in Scotland.

Papadopoulou A(1), Wallis T, Ramirez-Paredes JG, Monaghan SJ, Davie A, Migaud H, 
Adams A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Aquaculture, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling,
Stirling FK9 4LA, UK.

Healthy and/or moribund farmed and wild ballan wrasse Labrus bergylta (>0.5 to
900 g) were sampled from hatcheries (n = 2) and Atlantic salmon Salmo salar cage 
sites (n = 8) in Scotland between February 2016 and October 2018. Less than half 
of the sampled individuals (n = 43; 32.3%) had been vaccinated (autogenous
polyvalent vaccine; dip and/or injection) against atypical furunculosis (type V
and VI), while 20 (15.0%) fish were not vaccinated, and the rest (70 individuals,
52.7%) were of unknown vaccination status. Swab samples from skin lesions, gill, 
liver, spleen and kidney were inoculated onto a variety of bacteriological agar
plates, and bacteriology identification and sequencing analysis was performed on 
significant bacterial colonies. Atypical Aeromonas salmonicida (aAs) vapA type V 
was the predominant bacterial species (70/215 bacterial isolates, 32.5% of
bacterial samples; 43/117 positive individual fish, 36.8%) isolated in this
survey followed by Vibrio species, which were the most geographically prevalent
bacteria. Photobacterium indicum/profundum was also isolated from L. bergylta for
the first time during this study. The collection of these bacterial isolates
provides useful information for disease management. Identifying the aAs isolates 
involved in disease in ballan wrasse could provide vital information for
improving/updating existing autogenous vaccines.

DOI: 10.3354/dao03489 
PMID: 32614330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

