
1. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2020 Oct 2. doi: 10.1111/nyas.14480. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparative proteomic analysis reveals novel potential virulence factors of
Aeromonas veronii.

Yang BT(1)(2), Sun YF(1), Cao LN(1), Raza SHA(3), Zhou JH(1), Li YN(1), Sun
WW(1), Wang GQ(1), Shan XF(1), Kang YH(1), Qian AD(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Jilin Provincial Engineering
Research Center of Animal Probiotics, Key Laboratory of Animal Production and
Product Quality Safety of Ministry of Education, Jilin Agricultural University,
Changchun, Jilin, China.
(2)College of Life Science, Changchun Sci-Tech University, Changchun, Jilin,
China.
(3)College of Animal Science and Technology, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, 
Shanxi, China.

Aeromonas veronii is an important zoonotic and aquatic pathogen. An increasing
number of reports indicate that it has caused substantial economic losses in the 
aquaculture industry, in addition to threatening human health. However, little is
known about its pathogenesis. Exploration of new virulence factors of A. veronii 
would be helpful for further understanding its pathogenesis. Hence, we
comparatively analyzed the proteomes of virulent, attenuated, and avirulent
strains of A. veronii using tandem mass tag (TMT) protein labeling and found
numerous proteins either up- or downregulated in the virulent strain. Gene
Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analyses showed that
these differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were involved mainly in pathways
associated with bacterial chemotaxis and microbial metabolism in diverse
environments. Furthermore, the expression levels of lysine decarboxylase,
endoribonuclease, maltoporin, pullulanase, and aerolysin were positively
correlated with the virulence of the strains, suggesting that their function may 
be closely related to the virulence of A. veronii. The results of qRT-PCR and
multiple reaction monitoring for some DEPs were consistent with the results of
TMT protein labeling. These results suggest that these DEPs may be novel
potential virulence factors and will help to further understand the pathogenesis 
of A. veronii.

Â© 2020 New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/nyas.14480 
PMID: 33009679 

