
1. J Fish Dis. 2020 Aug 27. doi: 10.1111/jfd.13232. [Epub ahead of print]

Antibiotics modulate biofilm formation in fish pathogenic isolates of atypical
Aeromonas salmonicida.

Desbois AP(1), Cook KJ(1), Buba E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Aquaculture, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling,
Stirling, UK.

Atypical Aeromonas salmonicida causes furunculosis infections of non-salmonid
fish, which requires antibiotic therapy. However, antibiotics may induce biofilm 
in some bacteria, which protects them against hostile conditions while allowing
them to persist on surfaces, thus forming a reservoir for infection. The aim of
this study was to determine whether atypical isolates of A. salmonicida increased
biofilm in the presence of two antibiotics, florfenicol and oxytetracycline. A
microtitre plate assay was used to quantify biofilm in the presence and absence
of each antibiotic. Fifteen of 28 isolates formed biofilms under control
conditions, while 23 of 28 isolates increased biofilm formation in the presence
of at least one concentration of at least one antibiotic. For oxytetracycline,
the most effective concentration causing biofilm to increase was one-quarter of
that preventing visible bacterial growth, whereas for florfenicol it was one-half
of this value. This is the first study to demonstrate that a bacterial pathogen
of fish increases biofilm in response to antibiotics. Biofilm formation may
increase the risk of re-infection in culture systems and this lifestyle favours
the transmission of genetic material, which has implications for the
dissemination of antibiotic-resistance genes and demonstrates the need for
enhanced disease prevention measures against atypical A. salmonicida.

Â© 2020 The Authors. Journal of Fish Diseases published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jfd.13232 
PMID: 32856330 

