
1. J Environ Manage. 2020 Sep 11;276:111327. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2020.111327.
[Epub ahead of print]

Bioremediation with freshwater bivalves: A sustainable approach to reducing the
environmental impact of inland trout farms.

Sicuro B(1), Castelar B(2), Mugetti D(3), Pastorino P(4), Chiarandon A(5),
Menconi V(6), Galloni M(7), Prearo M(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Science, University of Turin. Largo Paolo Braccini 2,
10095, Grugliasco, Italy. Electronic address: benedetto.sicuro@unito.it.
(2)Department of Veterinary Science, University of Turin. Largo Paolo Braccini 2,
10095, Grugliasco, Italy. Electronic address: beatriz.castelar@unito.it.
(3)Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale del Piemonte, Liguria e Valle d'Aosta.
Via Bologna 148, 10154, Torino, Italy. Electronic address:
davide.mugetti@izsto.it.
(4)Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale del Piemonte, Liguria e Valle d'Aosta.
Via Bologna 148, 10154, Torino, Italy. Electronic address:
paolo.pastorino@izsto.it.
(5)Department of Veterinary Science, University of Turin. Largo Paolo Braccini 2,
10095, Grugliasco, Italy. Electronic address: alberto.chiarandon@unito.it.
(6)Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale del Piemonte, Liguria e Valle d'Aosta.
Via Bologna 148, 10154, Torino, Italy. Electronic address:
vasco.menconi@izsto.it.
(7)Department of Veterinary Science, University of Turin. Largo Paolo Braccini 2,
10095, Grugliasco, Italy. Electronic address: marco.galloni@unito.it.
(8)Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale del Piemonte, Liguria e Valle d'Aosta.
Via Bologna 148, 10154, Torino, Italy. Electronic address:
marino.prearo@izsto.it.

Integrated multi trophic aquaculture (IMTA) is well developed in seawater, while 
the only suitable organisms for bioremediation in freshwater are bivalves. The
aim of this research has been to investigate a novel system, based on freshwater 
bivalves integrated with rainbow trout, for the bioremediation of inland
aquaculture systems. The Unionid species selected for the experiments was
Sinanodonta woodiana. Five mesocosm experiments were conducted to evaluate the
efficiency of mussels in filtering the total bacteria and Aeromonas hydrophila,
as well as their clearance efficiency on trout farm wastewater. The temperatures,
dissolved oxygen, nitrates, and phosphates were monitored and were all within the
physiological tolerance range of the species in all the experiments. The
feasibility of bioremediation with S. woodiana in trout farming has thus been
demonstrated, and among the tested rearing densities (3.75; 7.5; 15; 30 and
60 kg m-3) that of 7.5 kg m-3 was found to be optimal. The net reduction of the
total bacterial concentration was as much as 72%, while that of A. hydrophila
reached a level of 95-98%. No relevant effects of the mussels on particulate
suspended material or sedimented material was observed, regardless of the
temperature. The efficiency of freshwater bivalves in reducing the bacterial
load, in particular toward A. hydrophila, indicates a bioremediation system with 
the possibility of interesting applications on inland fish farms, and as a
biotechnological tool against the diffusion of antibiotic resistance in
aquaculture.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2020.111327 
PMID: 32927189 

