
1. mSystems. 2020 Apr 28;5(2). pii: e00145-20. doi: 10.1128/mSystems.00145-20.

Time Series Resolution of the Fish Necrobiome Reveals a Decomposer Succession
Involving Toxigenic Bacterial Pathogens.

Lobb B(1), Hodgson R(1), Lynch MDJ(1)(2), Mansfield MJ(1), Cheng J(1)(2), Charles
TC(1)(2), Neufeld JD(1), Craig PM(3), Doxey AC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Metagenom Bio Life Science Inc., Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada
paul.craig@uwaterloo.ca acdoxey@uwaterloo.ca.

Despite progress understanding microbial communities involved in terrestrial
vertebrate decomposition, little is known about the microbial decomposition of
aquatic vertebrates from a functional and environmental context. Here, we
analyzed temporal changes in the "necrobiome" of rainbow darters, which are
common North American fish that are sensitive indicators of water quality. By
combining 16S rRNA gene and shotgun metagenomic sequence data from four time
points, we studied the progression of decomposers from both taxonomic and
functional perspectives. The 16S rRNA gene profiles revealed strong community
succession, with early decomposition stages associated with Aeromonas and
Clostridium taxa and later stages dominated by members of the Rikenellaceae
(i.e., Alistipes/Acetobacteroides genera). These results were reproducible and
independent of environmental perturbation, given that exposure to wastewater
treatment plant effluent did not substantially influence the necrobiome
composition of fish or the associated water sample microbiota. Metagenomic
analysis revealed significant changes throughout decomposition in degradation
pathways for amino acids, carbohydrates/glycans, and other compounds, in addition
to putrefaction pathways for production of putrescine, cadaverine, and indole.
Binning of contigs confirmed a predominance of Aeromonas genome assemblies,
including those from novel strains related to the pathogen Aeromonas veronii
These bins of Aeromonas genes also encoded known hemolysin toxins (e.g.,
aerolysin) that were particularly abundant early in the process, potentially
contributing to host cell lysis during decomposition. Overall, our results
demonstrate that wild-caught fish have a reproducible decomposer succession and
that the fish necrobiome serves as a potential source of putative pathogens and
toxigenic bacteria.IMPORTANCE The microbial decomposition of animal tissues is an
important ecological process that impacts nutrient cycling in natural
environments. We studied the microbial decomposition of a common North American
fish (rainbow darters) over four time points, combining 16S rRNA gene and shotgun
metagenomic sequence data to obtain both taxonomic and functional perspectives.
Our data revealed a strong community succession that was reproduced across
different fish and environments. Decomposition time point was the main driver of 
community composition and functional potential; fish environmental origin
(upstream or downstream of a wastewater treatment plant) had a secondary effect. 
We also identified strains related to the putative pathogen Aeromonas veronii as 
dominant members of the decomposition community. These bacteria peaked early in
decomposition and coincided with the metagenomic abundance of hemolytic toxin
genes. Our work reveals a strong decomposer succession in wild-caught fish,
providing functional and taxonomic insights into the vertebrate necrobiome.

Copyright Â© 2020 Lobb et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSystems.00145-20 
PMCID: PMC7190384
PMID: 32345738 

