
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 9;8(9). pii: E1379. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091379.

The Toothbrush Microbiome: Impact of User Age, Period of Use and Bristle Material
on the Microbial Communities of Toothbrushes.

Zinn MK(1), Schages L(1), Bockmühl D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, Rhine-Waal University of Applied Sciences, 47533
Kleve, Germany.

Toothbrushes play a central role in oral hygiene and must be considered one of
the most common articles of daily use. We analysed the bacterial colonization of 
used toothbrushes by next generation sequencing (NGS) and by cultivation on
different media. Furthermore, we determined the occurrence of antibiotic
resistance genes (ARGs) and the impact of different bristle materials on
microbial growth and survival. NGS data revealed that Enterobacteriaceae,
Micrococcaceae, Actinomycetaceae, and Streptococcaceae comprise major parts of
the toothbrush microbiome. The composition of the microbiome differed depending
on the period of use or user age. While higher fractions of Actinomycetales,
Lactobacillales, and Enterobacterales were found after shorter periods,
Micrococcales dominated on both toothbrushes used for more than four weeks and on
toothbrushes of older users, while in-vitro tests revealed increasing counts of
Micrococcus on all bristle materials as well. Compared to other environments, we 
found a rather low frequency of ARGs. We determined bacterial counts between 1.42
× 106 and 1.19 × 107 cfu/toothbrush on used toothbrushes and no significant
effect of different bristles materials on bacterial survival or growth. Our study
illustrates that toothbrushes harbor various microorganisms and that both period 
of use and user age might affect the microbial composition.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091379 
PMID: 32916797 

