
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Sep;104(17):7521-7532. doi:
10.1007/s00253-020-10786-7. Epub 2020 Jul 17.

A novel lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase for soybean oil refining provides
higher yields and extra nutritional value with a cleaner process.

Hails G(1), Cerminati S(1), Paoletti L(1), Cabrera R(2), Peirú S(1), Aguirre
A(1), Castelli ME(1), Menzella HG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Tecnología, Facultad de Ciencias Bioquímicas y Farmacéuticas, 
Instituto de Procesos Biotecnológicos y Químicos (IPROBYQ - CONICET), Universidad
Nacional de Rosario, Suipacha 570, S2002LRL, Rosario, Argentina.
(2)Unitec Bio., Combate Punta Quebracho s/n, 2202, Puerto General San Martín,
Argentina.
(3)Departamento de Tecnología, Facultad de Ciencias Bioquímicas y Farmacéuticas, 
Instituto de Procesos Biotecnológicos y Químicos (IPROBYQ - CONICET), Universidad
Nacional de Rosario, Suipacha 570, S2002LRL, Rosario, Argentina.
hmenzella@fbioyf.unr.edu.ar.

The growing demand for food and biofuels urges the vegetable oil processing
industry to adopt cleaner technologies to mitigate the environmental pollution
caused by chemical refining processes. Over the past decade, several enzymatic
methods have proven to be efficient at reducing the generated waste, but
improving the benefit-cost ratio is still necessary for the widespread adoption
of this technology. In this work, we show that lecithin:cholesterol
acyltransferase from Aeromonas enteropelogenes (LCATAE) provides a higher
extra-yield of soybean oil than a type A1 phospholipase (PLA) enzyme currently
commercialized for soybean oil deep degumming. Our model indicates that crude
soybean oil treated with the new enzyme generates 87% more neutral oil from
phospholipids than the widely used PLA, with the corresponding reduction in waste
and byproducts generation. The refined oil retains the phytosterols naturally
present in crude oil, enriching its nutritional value. The results presented here
position LCATAE as a promising candidate to provide the green solutions needed by
the industrial oil processing sector. Key points • Selected LCAT gene candidates 
were expressed in E. coli. • Aeromonas enteropelogenes LCAT hydrolyzes all the
phospholipids present in crude soybean oil. • The LCAT enzyme provides a higher
yield of neutral oil than commercial PLA enzymes and generates less waste. • The 
degummed oil retains sterols with high nutritional value.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10786-7 
PMID: 32676709 

