
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Mar 12;8(3). pii: E399. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8030399.

A Case of Aeromonas trota in an Immunocompromised Patient with Diarrhea.

Fernández-Bravo A(1), Fort-Gallifa I(2), Ballester F(2), Pujol I(1)(2),
Gomez-Bertomeu F(1)(3), Domínguez M(4), Micó M(5), Alcoceba E(5), Simó-Sisó
JM(2), Figueras MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Microbiología, Departamento de Ciencias Médicas Básicas, Facultad de
Medicina y Ciencias de la Salud, IISPV, Universidad Rovira i Virgili, Reus 43201,
Spain.
(2)Hospital Universitari Sant Joan de Reus-Laboratori de Referència de Tarragona 
i Terres de l'Ebre, Reus 43201, Spain.
(3)Hospital Universitari Joan XXIII-Hospital Universitari Sant Joan de
Reus-Laboratori de Referència de Tarragona i Terres de l'Ebre- Facultat de
Medicina i Ciències de la Salut, IISPV, Universitat Rovira i Virgili, Reus 43204,
Spain.
(4)Departamento de Geriatría, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Jesús, Tortosa 43590,
Spain.
(5)Laboratori de Referència de Catalunya, Barcelona 08820, Spain.

According to recent literature, 95.4% of the Aeromonas strains associated with
human clinical cases correspond to four species: Aeromonas caviae, Aeromonas
dhakensis, Aeromonas veronii and Aeromonas hydrophila. However, other less
prevalent species such as Aeromonas trota, are also described from clinical
samples. Based on its low incidence, the latter species can be regarded as rare
and it is the only Aeromonas species susceptible to ampicillin. From the
taxonomic point of view, A. trota is considered a synonym of the species
Aeromonas enteropelogenes. The objective of this study is to present a new
clinical case associated with A. trota in order to increase the knowledge about
this species. The strain was recovered from the feces of a 69-year-old patient
with a diarrheal syndrome and peritoneal psammocarcinoma. The preliminary
identification as Aeromonas sp. was obtained with the API 20E, but it was
characterized as Aeromonas jandei and also as Aeromonas enteropelogenes with
different scores with the matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time of
flight (MALDI-TOF). Based on the sequence of the rpoD gene, it was confirmed to
be A. trota. The antimicrobial resistance pattern showed that the strain was
susceptible to ampicillin, penicillins in combination with beta-lactamase
inhibitors, quinolones, carbapenems, aminoglycosides and cephalosporins, except
cephalothin. In conclusion, the recognition of an Aeromonas strain susceptible to
ampicillin should alert the clinical microbiologist of the possible involvement
of this rare species. Furthermore, the MALDI-TOF database should be updated
indicating that the species A. enteropelogenes, is a synonym of A. trota.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8030399 
PMCID: PMC7143958
PMID: 32178464 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing
interests.

