
1. BMC Res Notes. 2020 Jun 15;13(1):289. doi: 10.1186/s13104-020-05126-x.

Application of median lethal concentration (LC50) of pathogenic microorganisms
and their antigens in vaccine development.

Saganuwan SA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Veterinary
Medicine, Federal University of Agriculture, P.M.B. 2373, Makurdi, Benue,
Nigeria. pharm_saga2006@yahoo.com.

OBJECTIVE: Lack of ideal mathematical models to qualify and quantify both
pathogenicity, and virulence is a dreadful setback in development of new
antimicrobials and vaccines against resistance pathogenic microorganisms. Hence, 
the modified arithmetical formula of Reed and Muench has been integrated with
other formulas and used to determine bacterial colony forming unit/viral
concentration, virulence and immunogenicity.
RESULTS: Microorganisms' antigens tested are Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus
pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa in mice and rat, Edwardsiella ictaluri,
Aeromonas hydrophila, Aeromonas veronii in fish, New Castle Disease virus in
chicken, Sheep Pox virus, Foot-and-Mouth Disease virus and Hepatitis A virus in
vitro, respectively. The LC50s for the pathogens using different routes of
administrations are 1.93 × 103(sheep poxvirus) and 1.75 × 1010 for Staphylococcus
aureus (ATCC29213) in rat, respectively. Titer index (TI) equals N log10 LC50 and
provides protection against lethal dose in graded fashion which translates to
protection index. N is the number of vaccine dose that could neutralize the LC50.
Hence, parasite inoculum of 103 to 1011 may be used as basis for determination of
LC50 and median bacterial concentrations (BC50).Pathogenic dose for immune
stimulation should be sought at concentration about LC10.

DOI: 10.1186/s13104-020-05126-x 
PMCID: PMC7294769
PMID: 32539814 

