
1. Front Vet Sci. 2020 May 19;7:253. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2020.00253. eCollection
2020.

Assessment of Sample Size Calculations Used in Aquaculture by Simulation
Techniques.

de Blas I(1), Muniesa A(1), Vallejo A(2), Ruiz-Zarzuela I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Fish Diseases, Department of Animal Pathology, Instituto
Agroalimentario de Aragón IA2, Universidad de Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain.
(2)Facultad de Medicina Veterinaria y Zootecnia, Universidad de Córdoba,
Montería, Colombia.

An adequate sampling methodology is the key to knowing the health status of
aquatic populations. Usually, the aims of epidemiological surveys in aquaculture 
are to detect an infection and estimate the disease prevalence, and different
formulas are used to calculate the sample size. The main objective of this study 
was to assess if the sample sizes calculated using classical epidemiological
formulas are valid considering the sampling methodology, the population size, and
the spatial distribution of diseased animals in the population (non-clustered or 
clustered). However, the use of sample sizes of 30, 60, and 150 fish is widely
accepted in aquaculture, due to the requirements of the World Organization for
Animal Health (OIE) for epidemiological surveillance. We have developed a
specific software using ASP (Active Server Pages) language and MySQL database in 
order to generate aquatic populations from 100 to 10 000 brown trouts infected by
Aeromonas salmonicida with different levels of prevalence: 2, 5, 10, and 50%.
Then we implemented several Monte Carlo simulations to estimate empirically the
sample sizes corresponding to the different scenarios. Furthermore, we compared
these results with the values calculated by classical formulas. We determined
that simple random sampling was more accurate in detecting an infection, because 
it is independent of the distribution of infected animals in the population.
However, if diseased animals are non-clustered it is more efficient to use
systematic methods, even in the case of small populations. Finally, the formula
to calculate sample size to estimate disease prevalence is not valid when the
expected prevalence is far from 50%, and it is necessary to increase the sample
size to reach the desired precision.

Copyright © 2020 de Blas, Muniesa, Vallejo and Ruiz-Zarzuela.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2020.00253 
PMCID: PMC7248330
PMID: 32509804 

