
1. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2020 Jul 30;40(7):949-957. doi:
10.12122/j.issn.1673-4254.2020.07.06.

[Characteristics of intestinal flora in patients with primary Sj√∂gren syndrome].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang X(1)(2), Wang J(1)(2), Guo W(1)(2), Zhou Y(1)(2), Sun C(1)(2), Li Z(1)(2),
Chen L(1)(2), Pan X(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, First Affiliated Hospital of Bengbu
Medical College, Bengbu 233004, China.
(2)Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Immunology in Chronic Diseases, Bengbu
233004, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate changes in intestinal flora in patients with primary
Sj?gren syndrome (pSS) and explore the relationship between pSS disease activity 
and intestinal flora structure.
METHODS: Fecal samples were collected from 18 female pSS patients, including 9
patients with active disease (group A) and 9 with disease inactivity or low
activity (group B), with 10 healthy subjects as the control group. The total
bacterial DNA was extracted from the fecal samples for PCR amplification, and
Illumina Hiseq 2500 high-throughput sequencing was performed for the v3-v4 region
of 16Sr DNA gene to obtain the biological information of the intestinal flora.
The intergroup OTU analysis, structural diversity analysis, significant
difference analysis and LEFSE analysis were performed with information mining of 
the literature think tanks.
RESULTS: The dilution curves generated based on the OTUshannon index for analysis
of sample complexity showed that the measured data were relatively complete and
could reflect the diversity of the microorganisms in the subjects. Analysis of
the Alpha diversity index showed that the Shannon index differed significantly
between group A and group B, and the Simpson index differed significantly between
group A and group B and between group A and the control group (P &lt; 0.05).
Sequence analysis the 3 groups all consisted mainly of 4 phylum (Firmicutes,
Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria, showed that the intestinal flora in and
proteobacteria) and 4 genera (finegoldia, Prevotella, Streptococcus, and
Corynebacterium_1), all showing no significant differences among the 3 groups (P 
&gt; 0.05) with the exception of Streptococcus genus, which differed
significantly among the 3 groups (P &lt; 0.05). The 16S v3-v4 region in the genus
Alloscardovia, Bacteroides, Barnesiella, Butyricicoccus, Facklamia,
Faecalibacterium, Lachnospiraceae_FCS020_group, Lachnospiraceae_ND3007_group,
Lachnospiraceae_UCG-001, Lachnospirace, Lachnospirace, Ruminococcaceae_UCG-002,
Streptococcus and Coprococcus_1 differed significantly among the 3 groups (P &lt;
0.05). The high-dimensional biometrics and genomic characteristics of the
intestinal microorganisms differed significantly among the 3 groups (P &lt;
0.05). According to the size of LDA SCORE (effect size), the core flora in group 
A included the genera Barnesiellaccae, Aerococcaceae, Family-XIII,
Bacteroidaceae, Lachnospiraceae_UCG-001, Barnesiella, Facklamia, Alloscardovia,
Faecalibacterium and Bacteroides, as compared with the genera Streptococcaceae,
Streptococcus, Coprococcus_1, Ruminococcaceae_ucg-002,
Lachnospiraceae_FCS020_group, Lachnospiraceae_ucg-004,
Lachnospiraceae_ND3007_group, Lachnospiraceae_ucg-008 and Butyricicoccus in the
control group.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with pSS have significant changes in the diversity of
intestinal flora, especially in some specific bacteria in Streptococcu genus and 
in 16S v3-v4 region of the bacteria. The differences in the core bacteria in the 
intestinal flora of pSS patients suggest the role of flora structure changes in
the pathogenesis of pSS.

DOI: 10.12122/j.issn.1673-4254.2020.07.06 
PMCID: PMC7386224
PMID: 32895147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

