
1. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2020 Jul;102:412-421. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.05.003.
Epub 2020 May 7.

Effects of single or conjoint administration of lactic acid bacteria as potential
probiotics on growth, immune response and disease resistance of snakehead fish
(Channa argus).

Kong Y(1), Gao C(2), Du X(2), Zhao J(3), Li M(1), Shan X(1), Wang G(4).

Author information: 
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Jilin Agricultural University,
Changchun, Jilin, 130118, China; Joint Laboratory of Modern Agricultural
Technology International Cooperation, Ministry of Education, Jilin Agricultural
University, Changchun, Jilin, 130118, China; Ministry of Education Laboratory of 
Animal Production and Quality Security, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun,
Jilin, 130118, China; Jilin Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition and
Feed Science, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun, Jilin, 130118, China.
(2)Freshwater Fisheries Research Institute of Jilin Province, Changchun, Jilin,
130000, China.
(3)College of Animal Science and Technology, Jilin Agricultural University,
Changchun, Jilin, 130118, China.
(4)College of Animal Science and Technology, Jilin Agricultural University,
Changchun, Jilin, 130118, China; Joint Laboratory of Modern Agricultural
Technology International Cooperation, Ministry of Education, Jilin Agricultural
University, Changchun, Jilin, 130118, China; Ministry of Education Laboratory of 
Animal Production and Quality Security, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun,
Jilin, 130118, China; Jilin Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition and
Feed Science, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun, Jilin, 130118, China.
Electronic address: wgqjlau@aliyun.com.

Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) has been documented to promoting growth, enhancing
immunity and disease resistance. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the single
or conjoint effects of Lactococcus lactis L19 (Genbank: MT102745.1) and
Enterococcus faecalis W24 (Genbank: MT102746.1) isolated from the intestine of
Channa argus (C. argus) on growth performance, immune response and disease
resistance of C. argus. A total of 720 apparently healthy C. argus
(9.50 ± 0.03 g) were randomly divided into four equal groups. Fish were fed with 
a basal diet (CK) supplemented with L. lactis (L19), E. faecalis (W24), and L.
lactis L19 + E. faecalis W24 (L + W) at 1.0 × 108 cfu/g basal diet for 56 days.
After feeding, the final body weight (FBW), weight gain (WG), feed efficiency
ratio (FER), specific growth rate (SGR) and protein efficiency ratio (PER) had
significantly increased (p < 0.05), especially with L19. The results indicated
that single or conjoint administration of LAB as potential probiotics can induce 
high levels of IgM, ACP, AKP, LZM, C3 and C4 activity in serum, which may
effectively induce humoral immunity, and L19 induce even higher levels.
Meanwhile, when compared to CK group, the results of qPCR showed that LAB
administration significantly up-regulated (p < 0.05) the expression of IL-1β,
IL-6, IL-10, TNF-α, IFN-γ, HSP70, HSP90, TGF-β in the spleen, head kidney, gill, 
liver and intestine of C. argus. After challenge with Aeromonas veronii, the
survival rates in all LAB-fed groups were significantly higher (p < 0.05) than
that of the CK group, and the L19 group showed the highest (63.3%) disease
resistance. Our data indicated that L. lactis L19 and E. faecalis W24, as a feed 
additive at 1.0 × 108 cfu/g feed, could promote growth performance, enhance
immune response and disease resistance of C. argus, with greatest effects in fish
fed L. lactis L19 for 56 days. Hence, these LAB additives could be used as
promising probiotics for C. argus. L19 was more effective than W24 or the mixture
of the two for promoting growth performance, enhancing immune response and
disease resistance of C. argus.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.05.003 
PMID: 32387561 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no competing interests.

