
1. Microb Drug Resist. 2020 Jul;26(7):794-801. doi: 10.1089/mdr.2019.0250. Epub 2020
Jan 28.

Low Cassette Variability in Class 2 and Class 1 Integrons of Aeromonas spp.
Isolated from Environmental Samples.

Otero-Olarra JE(1), Curiel-Quesada E(1), Baltazar-Cruz J(1), Aguilera-Arreola
MG(2), Pérez-Valdespino A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biológicas del
Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Mexico City, Mexico.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biológicas del
Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Mexico City, Mexico.

Integrons are prokaryotic genetic elements known to carry and exchange antibiotic
resistance gene cassettes through a site-specific recombinase called integrase.
In this work, 107 Aeromonas isolates from environmental origin, including fish,
water, and sediments, were investigated for the presence of integrons. Using
specific primers for Class 1, 2 and 3 integrases, only Class 1 and Class 2
integrons were detected. Detection of Class 2 integrases and their associated
variable regions required two rounds of polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
Sequencing of the intI2 amplicons confirmed them as integrase-derived products.
Class 1 integrons were detected in 26 out of 107 isolates. PCR amplification of
the variable regions associated to these integrons revealed an outstanding
homogeneity, 25 of them having variable regions with an identical
dfrA12-orfF-aadA2 cassette array and one integron carrying only the dfrA16
cassette. To assess clone diversity, chromosomal DNA from isolates was subjected 
to enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus-PCR (ERIC-PCR), which
discarded clonality in all instances. Class 2 integrons were surprisingly more
prevalent than Class1 integrons, being detected in 60 out of 107 isolates.
Forty-six of them showed a unique ERIC profile, while the remaining 14 strains
displayed profiles that could be grouped in five different patterns. Cassette
arrangements of all Class 2 variable regions were those described as the most
prevalent (dfrA1-sat2-aadA1). A rather startling result of this work is the
sensitivity to trimethoprim, streptomycin, and streptothricin of most strains,
despite the presence of the cognate resistance genes. To know the integron
distribution in environmental Aeromonas species, a phylogenetic reconstruction
was done using rpoD/gyrB or rpoD/gyrA gene sequences. Isolates bearing these
elements corresponded to Aeromonas hydrophila, Aeromonas veronii, Aeromonas
salmonicida, Aeromonas dhakensis, Aeromonas sanarellii, Aeromonas taiwanensis,
Aeromonas media, Aeromonas caviae, Aeromonas jandaei, and Aeromonas sp. This work
revealed an unusual high incidence of Class 2 integrons and a low variability of 
cassette arrangements in environmental Aeromonas species.

DOI: 10.1089/mdr.2019.0250 
PMID: 31990611 

