
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2019 Nov;103(21-22):9023-9035. doi:
10.1007/s00253-019-10176-8. Epub 2019 Oct 25.

Bacillus velezensis LF01: in vitro antimicrobial activity against fish pathogens,
growth performance enhancement, and disease resistance against streptococcosis in
Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus).

Zhang D(1)(2), Gao Y(1)(2), Ke X(1)(3), Yi M(1)(3), Liu Z(1)(3), Han X(1)(3), Shi
C(1)(2), Lu M(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Aquatic Animal Immune Technology, Guangdong Province, Pearl 
River Fisheries Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences,
Guangzhou, 510380, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Fishery Drug Development, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Affairs, Pearl River Fisheries Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Fishery
Sciences, Guangzhou, 510380, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Tropical & Subtropical Fishery Resource Application &
Cultivation, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Pearl River Fisheries
Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences, Guangzhou, 510380,
China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Aquatic Animal Immune Technology, Guangdong Province, Pearl 
River Fisheries Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences,
Guangzhou, 510380, China. mx-lu@163.com.
(5)Key Laboratory of Tropical & Subtropical Fishery Resource Application &
Cultivation, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Pearl River Fisheries
Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences, Guangzhou, 510380,
China. mx-lu@163.com.

Streptococcus agalactiae is a major pathogen causing streptococcosis. To prevent 
and control this bacterial disease, antagonistic bacteria have become a new
research hotspot. This study evaluated the probiotic potential of Bacillus
velezensis LF01 strain, which is antagonistic to S. agalactiae. The active
compounds produced by LF01 showed antimicrobial activity against a broad spectrum
of fish pathogens, including S. agalactiae, Streptococcus iniae, Aeromonas
hydrophila, Edwardsiella tarda, Edwardsiella ictaluri, Aeromonas schubertii,
Aeromonas veronii, Aeromonas jandaei, and Vibrio harveyi. The antimicrobial
compounds were heat stable, pH stable, UV stable, resistant to proteases, and
could be stored for a long time. To evaluate the probiotic function of LF01 in
Nile tilapia, juveniles were divided into three treatment groups: a control
group, an interval feeding group, and a continuous feeding group. Tilapia fed
with LF01-supplemented diets (1.0 × 109 CFU/g) showed significantly better growth
performances than those of the control group (P < 0.05). Tilapia fed with
LF01-supplemented diets significantly increased lysozyme (LZY) and superoxide
dismutase (SOD) activities. The expression of three immune-related genes (C3,
lyzc, and MHC-IIβ) was higher in the intestine, head kidney, and gill of tilapia 
from the continuous feeding group than in those from the control group (P <
0.05). Tilapia fed with LF01-supplemented diets showed remarkably improved
survival rates after S. agalactiae infection, and analysis of their intestinal
tract pathogens revealed that the abundance of Edwardsiella and Plesiomonas had
significantly decreased compared with the control group. Our findings demonstrate
that LF01 is an effective antagonist against various fish pathogens and has
potential for controlling infections by Streptococcus spp. and other pathogens in
tilapia.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-019-10176-8 
PMID: 31654082  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

