
1. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2020 Oct;105:310-318. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.07.016.
Epub 2020 Jul 21.

Potential of the Escherichia coli LT(R192G/L211A) toxoid as a mucosal adjuvant
for rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss).

Martín-Martín A(1), Tejedor L(1), Tafalla C(1), Díaz-Rosales P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Fish Immunology and Pathology Laboratory, Animal Health Research Centre
(CISA-INIA), 28130, Valdeolmos, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Fish Immunology and Pathology Laboratory, Animal Health Research Centre
(CISA-INIA), 28130, Valdeolmos, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address:
diaz.patricia@inia.es.

Oral vaccines are highly demanded by aquaculture sector that requires
alternatives to injectable vaccines, involving fish handling, stress-related
immunosuppression and mortalities. However, most previous attempts to obtain
effective oral vaccines have failed due to a restricted tolerance mechanisms in
intestine, whose mucosa is at the frontline of antigen encounter and has to
balance the equilibrium between tolerance and immunity in a microbe-rich
environment. Thus, the search for oral adjuvants that could augment immune
responses triggered by antigens allowing them to circumvent intestinal tolerance 
is of great relevance. The present work focuses on the adjuvant potential of the 
Escherichia coli LT(R192G/L211A) toxoid (dmLT). To undertake an initial screening
of the potential that dmLT has as an oral adjuvant in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus
mykiss), we have analyzed its transcriptional effects alone or in combination
with Aeromonas salmonicida subsp. salmonicida or viral hemorrhagic septicemia
virus (VHSV) on rainbow trout intestinal epithelial cell line RTgutGC and gut
explants. Our results show that although dmLT provoked no significant effects by 
itself, it increased the transcription of pro-inflammatory cytokines and
antimicrobial genes induced by the bacteria. In contrast, when combined with
VHSV, dmLT only increased the transcription of Mx and the intracellular adhesion 
molecule 1 (ICAM1). Therefore, the protocol designed is an effective method to
initially evaluate the effects of potential oral adjuvants, and points to dmLT as
an effective adjuvant for oral antibacterial vaccines.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.07.016 
PMID: 32702476 

