
1. 3 Biotech. 2020 Jul;10(7):326. doi: 10.1007/s13205-020-02319-w. Epub 2020 Jun 30.

Biodegradation of carbendazim by a potent novel Chryseobacterium sp. JAS14 and
plant growth promoting Aeromonas caviae JAS15 with subsequent toxicity analysis.

Silambarasan S(1), Abraham J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Microbial Biotechnology Laboratory, School of Biosciences and Technology,
Vellore Institute of Technology, Vellore, Tamil Nadu 632014 India.

In the present study, carbendazim (MBC) degrading bacterial strains were isolated
and identified as Chryseobacterium sp. JAS14 and Aeromonas caviae JAS15. Both the
strains completely degraded 200 mg l-1 of MBC in the aqueous medium and soil
within 4-9 days of incubation. In an aqueous medium, the degradation process was 
characterized by a rate constant of 53.16 day-1 and 42.60 day-1, following zero
order model and DT50 was 1.8 days and 2.34 days for Chryseobacterium sp. JAS14
and A. caviae JAS15, respectively. A Chryseobacterium sp. JAS14 and A. caviae
JAS15 inoculated into the soil without the addition of nutrients showed the
degradation rate constant of 27.30 day-1 and 23.87 day-1, and DT50 was 3.66 days 
and 4.18 days, respectively. The metabolites during MBC biodegradation by
Chryseobacterium sp. JAS14 and A. caviae JAS15 were identified as
2-aminobenzimidazole, 2-hydroxybenzimidazole, 1, 2 diaminobenzene and catechol.
To our knowledge, this is the first study of the detailed biodegradation pathway 
of MBC by Chryseobacterium sp. JAS14 was proposed. Phytotoxicity and
cytogenotoxicity assays showed that the toxicity of the MBC reduced after
biodegradation by Chryseobacterium sp. JAS14 and A. caviae JAS15. In addition, A.
caviae JAS15 possess important plant growth promoting traits under normal and MBC
stress condition. These results suggest the Chryseobacterium sp. JAS14 and A.
caviae JAS15 could be used as a bioresource for the reclamation of MBC
contaminated soil.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-020-02319-w 
PMCID: PMC7326878 [Available on 2021-07-01]
PMID: 32656059 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that they
have no conflict of interest.

