
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Jan 15;9:476. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2019.00476.
eCollection 2019.

The Oral Microbiota May Have Influence on Oral Cancer.

Zhang L(1)(2)(3), Liu Y(1), Zheng HJ(4), Zhang CP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial-Head and Neck Oncology, Shanghai Ninth
People's Hospital, College of Stomatology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School
of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)National Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases, Shanghai, China.
(3)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Stomatology & Shanghai Research Institute of
Stomatology, Shanghai, China.
(4)NHC Key Lab of Reproduction Regulation (Shanghai Institute of Planned
Parenthood Research), Fudan University, Shanghai, China.

The oral microbiota plays an important role in the human microbiome and human
health, and imbalances between microbes and their hosts can lead to oral and
systemic diseases and chronic inflammation, which is usually caused by bacteria
and contributes to cancer. There may be a relationship between oral bacteria and 
oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC); however, this relationship has not been
thoroughly characterized. Therefore, in this study, we compared the microbiota
compositions between tumor sites and opposite normal tissues in buccal mucosal of
50 patients with OSCC using the 16S rDNA sequencing. Richness and diversity of
bacteria were significantly higher in tumor sites than in the control tissues.
Cancer tissues were enriched in six families (Prevotellaceae, Fusobacteriaceae,
Flavobacteriaceae, Lachnospiraceae, Peptostreptococcaceae, and
Campylobacteraceae) and 13 genera, including Fusobacterium, Alloprevotella and
Porphyromonas. At the species level, the abundances of Fusobacterium nucleatum,
Prevotella intermedia, Aggregatibacter segnis, Capnocytophaga leadbetteri,
Peptostreptococcus stomatis, and another five species were significantly
increased, suggesting a potential association between these bacteria and OSCC.
Furthermore, the functional prediction revealed that genes involved in bacterial 
chemotaxis, flagellar assembly and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) biosynthesis which
are associated with various pathological processes, were significantly increased 
in the OSCC group. Overall, oral bacterial profiles showed significant difference
between cancer sites and normal tissue of OSCC patients, which might be onsidered
diagnostic markers and treatment targets. Our study has been registered in the
Chinese clinical trial registry (ChiCTR1900025253,
http://www.chictr.org.cn/index.aspx).

Copyright Â© 2020 Zhang, Liu, Zheng and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2019.00476 
PMCID: PMC6974454
PMID: 32010645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

