
1. Life Sci. 2020 Sep 25;262:118497. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2020.118497. [Epub ahead of 
print]

The effect of fecal microbiota transplantation on autistic-like behaviors in Fmr1
KO mice.

Goo N(1), Bae HJ(1), Park K(1), Kim J(1), Jeong Y(1), Cai M(2), Cho K(2), Jung
SY(1), Kim DH(1), Ryu JH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life and Nanopharmaceutical Science, Kyung Hee University, Seoul
02447, Republic of Korea; Neurobiota Research Center, College of Pharmacy, Kyung 
Hee University, Seoul 02447, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Life and Nanopharmaceutical Science, Kyung Hee University, Seoul
02447, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Life and Nanopharmaceutical Science, Kyung Hee University, Seoul
02447, Republic of Korea; Neurobiota Research Center, College of Pharmacy, Kyung 
Hee University, Seoul 02447, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
jhryu63@khu.ac.kr.

The importance of alterations in bidirectional communication between gut and
brain has become obvious in neuropsychiatric disorders. Gastrointestinal (GI)
disturbances are very common in autism spectrum disorders (ASD), and the GI
microbiota profiles in children with ASD are significantly different from those
in the general population. Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is an inheritable
developmental disability in humans, and patients with FXS exhibit autistic
behaviors such as mental retardation and impaired social communication or
interaction. We hypothesized that an increase in specific gut microbiota by fecal
microbiota transplantation (FMT) would mitigate autistic-like behaviors. To test 
this hypothesis, we measured the effects of FMT from normal mice to Fmr1 KO mice 
on autistic-like behaviors using several behavioral tests. Because the amounts of
A. muciniphila in Fmr1 KO mice was very low, we assessed A. muciniphila
population, tested the expression of MUC2, and analyzed goblet cells in the gut
after the FMT. We found that FMT ameliorated autistic-like behaviors, especially 
memory deficits and social withdrawal, and we observed that the levels of A.
muciniphila were normalized to wild-type levels. In addition, FMT attenuated the 
increased levels of TNFα and Iba1 in the brains of Fmr1 KO mice. These results
suggest that FMT could be a useful tool for the treatments of cognitive deficits 
and social withdrawal symptoms observed in FXS or ASD because it increases the
population of A. muciniphila and decreases TNFα and Iba1 levels.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2020.118497 
PMID: 32987062 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The Authors
declare that there is no conflict of interest.

