
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 5;8(9). pii: E1360. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091360.

Akkermansia muciniphila is Negatively Correlated with Hemoglobin A1c in
Refractory Diabetes.

Shih CT(1), Yeh YT(2)(3)(4), Lin CC(2)(3), Yang LY(5), Chiang CP(3)(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Fooyin University Hospital, Pingtung 92849,
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Education and Research, Fooyin University Hospital, Pingtung
92849, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences and Biotechnology, Fooyin
University, Kaohsiung 83102, Taiwan.
(4)Aging and Disease Prevention Research Center, Fooyin University, Kaohsiung
83102, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Community Health Center, Fooyin University Hospital, Pingtung
92849, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Surgery, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 80756,
Taiwan.
(7)Division of Breast Surgery, Department of Surgery, Kaohsiung Medical
University Hospital, Kaohsiung 80756, Taiwan.

Patients with refractory diabetes are defined as type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients; 
they cannot achieve optimal glycemic control and exhibit persistent elevations of
hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) ≥8% while on appropriate therapy. Hyperglycemia can lead
to severe microvascular/macrovascular complications. However, in contrast to T2D,
few studies have focused specifically on the gut microbiota in refractory
diabetes. To examine this issue, we recruited 79 subjects with T2D and refractory
diabetes (RT2D), and all subjects received standard therapy with Metformin or
other hypoglycemic agents with or without insulin for at least one year. The
α-diversity displayed no significant difference, whereas the β-diversity showed a
marginal significance (p = 0.054) between T2D and RT2D. The evaluation of
taxonomic indices revealed reductions in both Akkermansia muciniphila and
Fusobacterium and a corresponding enrichment of Bacteroides vulgatus, Veillonella
denticariosi among those with RT2D. These microbial markers distinguished RT2D
from T2D with an acceptable degree of discrimination (area under the curve (AUC) 
= 0.719, p < 0.01) and were involved in several glucose-related functional
pathways. Furthermore, the relative abundance of Akkermansia muciniphila was
negatively correlated with HbA1c. Our combined results reveal unique features of 
the gut microbiota in RT2D and suggest that the evaluation of the gut microbiota 
could provide insights into the mechanisms underlying glycemic control and the
impact of therapeutic modalities in patients with RT2D.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091360 
PMID: 32899513 

