
1. Nutrients. 2020 Sep 24;12(10). pii: E2932. doi: 10.3390/nu12102932.

Rhubarb Supplementation Prevents Diet-Induced Obesity and Diabetes in Association
with Increased Akkermansia muciniphila in Mice.

Régnier M(1), Rastelli M(1), Morissette A(2), Suriano F(1), Le Roy T(1), Pilon
G(2), Delzenne NM(1), Marette A(2), Van Hul M(1), Cani PD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Metabolism and Nutrition Research Group, Louvain Drug Research Institute,
Walloon Excellence in Life sciences and BIOtechnology (WELBIO), UCLouvain,
Université catholique de Louvain, Av. E. Mounier, 73 B1.73.11, 1200 Bruxelles,
Belgium.
(2)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Cardiology Axis of the Quebec
Heart and Lung Institute, Quebec, QC G1V 4G5, Canada.

Obesity and obesity-related disorders, such as type 2 diabetes have been
progressively increasing worldwide and treatments have failed to counteract their
progression. Growing evidence have demonstrated that gut microbiota is associated
with the incidence of these pathologies. Hence, the identification of new
nutritional compounds, able to improve health through a modulation of gut
microbiota, is gaining interest. In this context, the aim of this study was to
investigate the gut-driving effects of rhubarb extract in a context of
diet-induced obesity and diabetes. Eight weeks old C57BL6/J male mice were fed a 
control diet (CTRL), a high fat and high sucrose diet (HFHS) or a HFHS diet
supplemented with 0.3% (g/g) of rhubarb extract for eight weeks. Rhubarb
supplementation fully prevented HFHS-induced obesity, diabetes, visceral
adiposity, adipose tissue inflammation and liver triglyceride accumulation,
without any modification in food intake. By combining sequencing and qPCR
methods, we found that all these effects were associated with a blooming of
Akkermansia muciniphila, which is strongly correlated with increased expression
of Reg3γ in the colon. Our data showed that rhubarb supplementation is sufficient
to protect against metabolic disorders induced by a diet rich in lipid and
carbohydrates in association with a reciprocal interaction between Akkermansia
muciniphila and Reg3γ.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12102932 
PMID: 32987923 

