
1. J Immunol Res. 2020 Aug 7;2020:2969287. doi: 10.1155/2020/2969287. eCollection
2020.

Akkermansia muciniphila Enhances the Antitumor Effect of Cisplatin in Lewis Lung 
Cancer Mice.

Chen Z(1), Qian X(1), Chen S(2), Fu X(1), Ma G(3), Zhang A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cancer and Basic Medicine (ICBM), Zhejiang Cancer Hospital,
Cancer Hospital of the University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, No. 38, Guangji
Road, Hangzhou, 310022 Zhejiang, China.
(2)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Taizhou Cancer Hospital, No. 50,
Zhenxin Road, Taizhou, 318000 Zhejiang, China.
(3)Second Clinical Medical College, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, No. 548,
Binwen Road, Hangzhou, 310053 Zhejiang, China.

Recently, intestinal flora plays a vital role in the occurrence and development
of tumors and there is link between cancer immunotherapy and Akkermansia
muciniphila (Akk). However, the therapeutic efficacy of Akk in lung cancer
remained unclear. Hence, our study is aimed at investigating the antitumor
effects of cisplatin (CDDP) combined with Akk on lung cancer. Using the murine
lung cancer model by subcutaneously inoculating Lewis lung cancer model, 50 mice 
were divided into five groups: normal, model, CDDP, CDDP+Akk, and
CDDP+antibiotics. After treatment within 5 weeks, compared with the model group, 
the administered group improved the changes of tumor pathomorphology. Compared
with the CDDP group, CDDP combining with Akk slowed down the growth of tumor
volume, downregulated the levels of ki-67, p53, and factor-associated suicide
(Fas) ligand proteins and upregulated Fas proteins, increased the levels of
interferon-γ, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor-α, and suppressed the
expression of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ Treg in mouse peripheral blood and spleen. In
addition, transcriptome analysis indicated that Akk combining with CDDP increased
obviously the levels of IFI27l2 and IGFBP7 and was related to those pathways
including the cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, Th17 cell differentiation, 
FOXO, JAK-STAT, and PI3K-Akt signaling pathways. These results suggested that the
therapeutic efficacy of the combined treatment of Akk and CDDP was superior to
the only CDDP treatment, which could enhance immune regulation and would be a
promising strategy for the treatment of lung cancer.

Copyright © 2020 Zhuo Chen et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/2969287 
PMCID: PMC7428831
PMID: 32832569 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest.

