
1. Neurosci Insights. 2020 Jul 27;15:2633105520942480. doi:
10.1177/2633105520942480. eCollection 2020.

Host Akkermansia muciniphila Abundance Correlates With Gulf War Illness Symptom
Persistence via NLRP3-Mediated Neuroinflammation and Decreased Brain-Derived
Neurotrophic Factor.

Kimono D(1), Bose D(1), Seth RK(1), Mondal A(1), Saha P(1), Janulewicz P(2),
Sullivan K(2), Lasley S(3), Horner R(4), Klimas N(5), Chatterjee S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Environmental Health and Disease Laboratory, NIEHS Center for Oceans and Human
Health on Climate Change Interactions, Department of Environmental Health
Sciences, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC, USA.
(2)Department of Environmental Health, Boston University School of Public Health,
Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Cancer Biology and Pharmacology, University of Illinois College 
of Medicine, Peoria, IL, USA.
(4)Department of Health Services Policy and Management, University of South
Carolina, Columbia, SC, USA.
(5)Department of Clinical Immunology, College of Osteopathic Medicine, Nova
Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL, USA.

Neurological disorders are commonly reported among veterans who returned from the
Gulf war. Veterans who suffer from Gulf War illness (GWI) complain of continued
symptom persistence that includes neurological disorders, muscle weakness,
headaches, and memory loss, that developed during or shortly after the war. Our
recent research showed that chemical exposure associated microbial dysbiosis
accompanied by a leaky gut connected the pathologies in the intestine, liver, and
brain. However, the mechanisms that caused the symptoms to persist even 30 years 
after the war remained elusive to investigators. In this study, we used a rodent 
model of GWI to investigate the persistence of microbiome alterations, resultant 
chronic inflammation, and its effect on neurotrophic and synaptic plasticity
marker BDNF. The results showed that exposure to GW chemicals (the pesticide
permethrin and prophylactic drug pyridostigmine bromide) resulted in persistent
pathology characterized by the low relative abundance of the probiotic bacteria
Akkermansia muciniphila in the gut, which correlated with high circulatory HMGB1 
levels, blood-brain barrier dysfunction, neuroinflammation and lowered
neurotrophin BDNF levels. Mechanistically, we used mice lacking the NLRP3 gene to
investigate this inflammasome's role in observed pathology. These mice had
significantly decreased inflammation and a subsequent increase in BDNF in the
frontal cortex. This suggests that a persistently low species abundance of
Akkermansia muciniphila and associated chronic inflammation due to inflammasome
activation might be playing a significant role in contributing to chronic
neurological problems in GWI. A therapeutic approach with various small molecules
that can target both the restoration of a healthy microbiome and decreasing
inflammasome activation might have better outcomes in treating GWI symptom
persistence.

Â© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1177/2633105520942480 
PMCID: PMC7440889
PMID: 32832901 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests:The
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.

