
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 14;8(9). pii: E1413. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091413.

Beneficial Effects of Newly Isolated Akkermansia muciniphila Strains from the
Human Gut on Obesity and Metabolic Dysregulation.

Yang M(1), Bose S(1), Lim S(1), Seo J(2), Shin J(2), Lee D(2), Chung WH(3), Song 
EJ(4), Nam YD(4), Kim H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine of Korean Medicine, Dongguk University, 
814 Siksa-dong, Ilsandong-gu, Goyang-si 10326, Korea.
(2)R&D Center, Enterobiome Inc., 814 Siksa-dong, Ilsandong-gu, Goyang-si 10326,
Korea.
(3)Research Group of Healthcare, Korea Food Research Institute, Wanju 55365,
Korea.
(4)Research Group of Gut Microbiome, Korea Food Research Institute, Wanju-gun
55365, Korea.

The identification of new probiotics with anti-obesity properties has attracted
considerable interest. In the present study, the anti-obesity activities of
Akkermansia muciniphila (A. muciniphila) strains isolated from human stool
samples and their relationship with the gut microbiota were evaluated using a
high fat-diet (HFD)-fed mice model. Three strains of A. muciniphila were chosen
from 27 isolates selected based on their anti-lipogenic activity in 3T3-L1 cells.
The anti-lipogenic, anti-adipogenic and anti-obesity properties of these three
strains were evaluated further in HFD-induced obese mice. The animals were
administered these strains six times per week for 12 weeks. The treatment
improved the HFD-induced metabolic disorders in mice in terms of the prevention
of body weight gain, caloric intake and reduction in the weights of the major
adipose tissues and total fat. In addition, it improved glucose homeostasis and
insulin sensitivity. These effects were also associated with the inhibition of
low-grade intestinal inflammation and restoration of damaged gut integrity,
prevention of liver steatosis and improvement of hepatic function. These results 
revealed a difference in the distribution pattern of the gut microbial
communities between groups. Therefore, the gut microbial population modulation,
at least in part, might contribute to the beneficial impact of the selected A.
muciniphila strains against metabolic disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091413 
PMID: 32937828 

