
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 3;8(9). pii: E1347. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091347.

Gut Microbial Changes in Diabetic db/db Mice and Recovery of Microbial Diversity 
upon Pirfenidone Treatment.

Singh H(1), Miyamoto S(2), Darshi M(2), Torralba MG(3), Kwon K(1), Sharma K(2),
Pieper R(1).

Author information: 
(1)J. Craig Venter Institute, 9605 Medical Center Drive, Suite 150, Rockville, MD
20850, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Texas Health, San Antonio, TX 77030,
USA.
(3)J. Craig Venter Institute, 4120 Capricorn Lane, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA.

The leptin receptor-deficient db/db mouse model is an accepted in vivo model to
study obesity, type 2 diabetes, and diabetic kidney disease. Healthy
gastrointestinal (GI) microbiota has been linked to weight loss, improved
glycemic control, and physiological benefits. We investigated the effect of
various drugs on the GI microbiota of db/db mice as compared to control db/m
mice. Treatment with long-acting pirfenidone (PFD) increased gut microbial
diversity in diabetic db/db mice. Firmicutes, the most abundant phylum in db/m
mice, decreased significantly in abundance in db/db mice but showed increased
abundance with long-acting PFD treatment. Several bacterial taxa, including
Lactobacillus and some Bacteroides, were less abundant in db/db mice and more
abundant in long-acting-PFD-treated db/db mice. Long-acting PFD treatment reduced
the abundance of Akkermansia muciniphila (5%) as compared to db/db mice (~15%).
We conclude that gut microbial dysbiosis observed in db/db mice was partially
reversed by long-acting PFD treatment and hypothesize that PFD has beneficial
effects, in part, via its influence on the gut microbial metabolite profile. In
quantitatively assessing urine metabolites, we observed a high abundance of
diabetic ketoacidosis biomarkers, including 3-hydroxybutyric acid and acetoacetic
acid in db/db mice, which were less abundant in the long-acting-PFD-treated db/db
mice.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091347 
PMID: 32899353 

