
1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 May 1;715:136885. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.136885.
Epub 2020 Jan 23.

Bioconversion of citrus peel wastes into bioflocculants and their application in 
the removal of microcystins.

Qi X(1), Zheng Y(2), Tang N(3), Zhou J(4), Sun S(5).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Jiamusi University, Jiamusi 154007, China; School of
Environmental Engineering, Wuhan Textile University, Wuhan 430073, China.
(2)Hubei Key Laboratory of Economic Forest Germplasm Improvement and Resources
Comprehensive Utilization, Huanggang Normal University, Huanggang 438000, China.
(3)School of Environmental Engineering, Wuhan Textile University, Wuhan 430073,
China.
(4)School of Environmental Engineering, Wuhan Textile University, Wuhan 430073,
China; Engineering Research Centre for Clean Production of Textile Dyeing and
Printing, Ministry of Education, Wuhan Textile University, Wuhan 430073, China.
Electronic address: wallice24@hotmail.com.
(5)School of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong University of Science and
Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, China.

In this study, the mechanism for converting citrus peel wastes (CPW) into
bioflocculants using Alcaligenes faecalis subsp. phenolicus ZY-16 was analysed.
The results demonstrated that the ZY-16 strain could produce various
lignocellulolytic enzymes, containing cellulase, hemicellulase, pectinase,
protease, and ligninase, enhancing the hydrolysis of citrus peel wastes.
Molecular distillation removes antimicrobial limonene, which could inhibit
bioflocculant production. The optimal fermentation conditions with the highest
bioflocculant yield (3.49 g/L) were 38.79 g/L of CPW, 35.54 °C, and pH 4.48.
Furthermore, the bioflocculant was used to eliminate microcystins for the first
time, and the highest removal efficiency (90.05%) was achieved at a pH of 3.0,
after 800 mg/L of bioflocculant was added into the microcystins solution
(10 mg/L) for 60 min. Therefore, this paper demonstrated that CPW could be a
cost-effective feedstock for the production of bioflocculants, which have
potential application in microcystin removal.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.136885 
PMID: 32041043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

