
1. J Basic Microbiol. 2020 Jul;60(7):562-573. doi: 10.1002/jobm.202000042. Epub 2020
Apr 20.

Bioelectrochemical behaviour of a sequentially added biocatalytic coculture in a 
microbial fuel cell.

Arkatkar A(1)(2), Mungray AK(1), Sharma P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Sardar Vallabhabhai National Institute of 
Technology, Surat, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Veer Narmad South Gujarat University, Surat,
India.

Bacterial isolates Pseudomonas aeruginosa BR, Alcaligenes faecalis SW and
Escherichia coli EC from a microbial fuel cell (MFC) were cocultured with each
other. The isolates were added in a specific sequence one after the other (two
cultures in one reactor). The study helped us conceptualise the synergistic and
antagonistic behaviour of bacterial isolates and also emphasised the sequence in 
which a culture can be introduced in an anode chamber. The coculture conditions
were evaluated on the basis of redox activity, electron transfer rate, columbic
efficiency, and internal resistances. A good syntropy in terms of power
production was found between P. aeruginosa BR and E. coli EC that recorded a
power generation of 207.593 ± 1.705 µW/m2 . The addition of any culture in any
sequence affected the performance of P. aeruginosa BR. This culture when added as
a secondary culture in the reactor enhanced the performance of that reactor. The 
sequence of addition of a culture in a reactor affected the performance in the
combinations of (a) P. aeruginosa BR and A. faecalis SW and (b) A. faecalis SW
and E. coli EC.

© 2020 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/jobm.202000042 
PMID: 32311138 

