
1. Chem Res Toxicol. 2020 Apr 20;33(4):915-932. doi: 10.1021/acs.chemrestox.9b00467.
Epub 2020 Mar 19.

Safe-by-Design of Glucan Nanoparticles: Size Matters When Assessing the
Immunotoxicity.

Colaço M(1)(2), Marques AP(1), Jesus S(1), Duarte A(1)(2), Borges O(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Coimbra, 3000-548
Coimbra, Portugal.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of
Coimbra, 3000-548 Coimbra, Portugal.

Glucan (from Alcaligenes faecalis) is a polymer composed of β-1,3-linked glucose 
residues, and it has been addressed in different medical fields, namely in
nanotechnology, as a vaccine or a drug delivery system. However, due to their
small size, nanomaterials may present new risks and uncertainties. Thus, this
work aims to describe the production of glucan nanoparticles (NPs) with two
different sizes, and to evaluate the influence of the NPs size on immunotoxicity.
Results showed that, immediately after production, glucan NPs presented average
sizes of 129.7 ± 2.5 and 355.4 ± 41.0 nm. Glucan NPs of 130 nm presented greater 
ability to decrease human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and macrophage
viability and to induce reactive oxygen species production than glucan NPs of 355
nm. Both NP sizes caused hemolysis and induced a higher metabolic activity in
lymphocytes, although the concentration required to observe such effect was lower
for the 130 nm glucan NPs. Regarding pro-inflammatory cytokines, only the larger 
glucan NPs (355 nm) were able to induce the secretion of IL-6 and TNF-α, probably
due to their recognition by dectin-1. This higher immunomodulatory effect of the 
larger NPs was also observed in its ability to stimulate the production of nitric
oxide (NO) and IL-1β. On the contrary, a small amount of Glu 130 NPs inhibited NO
production. In conclusion, on the safe-by-design of glucan NPs, the size of the
particles should be an important critical quality attribute to guarantee the
safety and effectiveness of the nanomedicine.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemrestox.9b00467 
PMID: 32138518 

