
1. J Hazard Mater. 2020 Nov 5;398:122941. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2020.122941. Epub
2020 May 24.

Bacterial compatibility and immobilization with biochar improved tebuconazole
degradation, soil microbiome composition and functioning.

Sun T(1), Miao J(1), Saleem M(2), Zhang H(1), Yang Y(1), Zhang Q(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Lab of Integrated Crop Pest Management of Shandong Province, College of
Plant Health and Medicine, Qingdao Agricultural University, Qingdao, Shandong,
266109, China.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Alabama State University, Montgomery, AL,
36101, USA.
(3)Key Lab of Integrated Crop Pest Management of Shandong Province, College of
Plant Health and Medicine, Qingdao Agricultural University, Qingdao, Shandong,
266109, China. Electronic address: zhangqingminghf@163.com.

Tebuconazole is a widely used fungicide that may impair soil health. Presently,
limited information is available on the bioremediation of
tebuconazole-contaminated soil using biochar as a carrier for bacteria. In this
study, we firstly isolated a tebuconazole-degrading strain and identified it as
Alcaligenes faecalis WZ-2. Then, we used wheat straw-derived biochar as carrier
to capture strain WZ-2 to assemble microorganism-immobilized composite. Finally, 
we investigated the effects of strain WZ-2 and biochar-immobilized WZ-2 on
tebuconazole biodegradation, microbial enzyme activities and community
composition in the contaminated soil. Results showed that, as compared to
control, the strain WZ-2 and biochar-immobilized WZ-2 accelerated the degradation
of tebuconazole, while reducing the half-life of tebuconazole from 40.8 to 18.7
and 13.3 days in soil, respectively. However, biochar alone than control slightly
retarded the degradation of tebuconazole in soil. Though tebuconazole (10 mg/kg) 
negatively affected the soil enzyme activities (urease, dehydrogenase, and
invertase) and microbiome community structure, the biochar-immobilized WZ-2 not
only accelerated the degradation of tebuconazole but also restored native soil
microbial enzyme activities and microbiome community composition. Our results
suggest that a compatible combination of bacteria with biochar is an attractive
and efficient approach for remediation of pesticide-contaminated soil and
improvement of soil biological health.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2020.122941 
PMID: 32492617 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

