
1. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2020 Aug 3. doi: 10.1007/s00449-020-02416-3. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Simultaneous removal characteristics of ammonium and phenol by Alcaligenes
faecalis strain WY-01 with the addition of acetate.

Chen H(1), Wang Y(2), Lv YK(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Innovation Institute of Environmental Industry, College of Environmental
Science and Engineering, Taiyuan University of Technology, Taiyuan, 030024,
Shanxi, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Coal Science and Technology, Ministry of Education and
Shanxi Province, Taiyuan University of Technology, Taiyuan, 030024, Shanxi,
China. wangying0617@126.com.
(3)Key Laboratory of Coal Science and Technology, Ministry of Education and
Shanxi Province, Taiyuan University of Technology, Taiyuan, 030024, Shanxi,
China.

In this study, simultaneous removal of ammonium plus phenol could be achieved by 
Alcaligenes faecalis strain WY-01 with the addition of acetate, although acetate 
delayed the phenol degradation, probably due to the delayed expression of phenol 
hydroxylase gene under the presence of acetate. Moreover, the successful
expression of key enzyme genes in strain WY-01 provided some evidence to
illustrate its metabolic pathways of ammonium and phenol under aerobic
conditions. Furthermore, SEM was used to clarify the role of acetate in resisting
phenol toxicity, and these results demonstrated that strain WY-01 has the ability
to form cell flocs when sodium acetate is used as co-substrate for a high
concentration of phenol, and these flocs could protect cells against the toxicity
of phenol, further enhancing phenol degradation in a high concentration of
phenol. All these will provide further insights into the efficacy of strain WY-01
for treating wastewater cocontaminated by ammonium and phenol.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-020-02416-3 
PMID: 32748276 

