
1. Insects. 2020 Aug 4;11(8). pii: E500. doi: 10.3390/insects11080500.

Stingless Bee Honey: Evaluating Its Antibacterial Activity and Bacterial
Diversity.

Rosli FN(1), Hazemi MHF(2), Akbar MA(1), Basir S(2), Kassim H(2), Bunawan H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Biotechnology and Functional Food, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, 
Bangi 43600, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Institute of Systems Biology, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Bangi 43600,
Selangor, Malaysia.

Stingless bee honey (SBH) is an astounding 'miracle liquid' with countless
medicinal properties for various diseases such as gastroenteritis, cataracts, as 
well as for wound-healing. However, knowledge regarding it is still rather
scarce. Henceforth, it is intriguing for us to contemplate on the less-studied
stingless bee and its honey in particular. First and foremost, the antimicrobial 
ability of honey from eight different stingless bee species was tested to further
proven its health benefit. Homotrigona fimbriata honey showed the highest
antimicrobial activity with inhibition against five bacteria; Serratia
marcescens, Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis, Alcaligenes faecalis and
Staphylococcus aureus. The next aim of our study is to characterize their honey
bacterial community via the use of 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing technology. A
total of eight bacterial phyla, 71 families, 155 genera and 70 species were
identified from our study and two of the stingless bee species honey were
determined to have the highest bacterial diversity compared to other six
stingless bee species, namely Heterotrigona erythrogastra and Tetrigona
melanoleuca. Furthermost, Lactobacillus malefermentans was thought to be the
native dominant bacteria of SBH due to its predominant presence throughout all
studied species. The aforementioned SBH's antimicrobial results and
characterization study of its bacterial diversity are hoped to carve the pathway 
towards extending its probiotic ability into our everyday lives.

DOI: 10.3390/insects11080500 
PMCID: PMC7469184
PMID: 32759701 

