
1. Environ Technol. 2020 Jun 20:1-8. doi: 10.1080/09593330.2020.1780476. [Epub ahead
of print]

The immobilized Alcaligenes faecalis strain WT14 for removing high strength
nitrate and reducing nitrite accumulation.

Chen J(1)(2), Zhang S(1), Liu F(1), Luo P(1), Xiao R(1), Zhang M(1), Wu J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Agro-ecological Processes in Subtropical Regions, Changsha
Research Station for Agricultural & Environmental Monitoring, Institute of
Subtropical Agriculture, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hunan, People's Republic of
China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, People's Republic of
China.

Microbial immobilization is considered as one of the effective denitrification
techniques in the treatment of high load wastewater. In this study, the
immobilized cells consisting of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), sodium alginate (SA),
and calcium chloride (CaCl2) were inoculated with Alcaligenes faecalis strain
WT14 to treat wastewater with high nitrate-nitrogen ([Formula: see text]-N)
concentrations. After 48 h of wastewater treatment, 26.2-89.4% of total nitrogen 
(TN) was removed by the immobilized Alcaligenes faecalis strain WT14. The
response surface methodology revealed the highest TN removal efficiency by
Alcaligenes faecalis strain WT14 occurred at the immobilized ratio of 9.3% of
PVA, 2.2% of SA and 1.9% of CaCl2. Under the optimal ratio of PVA, SA, and CaCl2,
the conditions for the maximum denitrification efficiency and TN removal were pH 
of 7, temperature of 40°C, and shaking speed of 60 rpm·min-1. Compared to the
free cells, the immobilization cells had no obvious negative effect on
denitrification efficiency, additionally reduced the nitrite accumulation, and
thus improved the TN removal. Furthermore, the immobilized cells still maintained
95.4% of [Formula: see text]-N removal after the eighth cycle reuse. These
results demonstrated the immobilized Alcaligenes faecalis strain WT14 can remove 
TN effectively and additionally reduce nitrite accumulation in treating high
strength [Formula: see text]-N wastewater.

DOI: 10.1080/09593330.2020.1780476 
PMID: 32508276 

