
1. Int Microbiol. 2020 Jul 23. doi: 10.1007/s10123-020-00137-x. [Epub ahead of
print]

Penicillin G acylase production by Mucor griseocyanus and the partial genetic
analysis of its pga gene.

Cano-Cabrera JC(1), Palomo-Ligas L(2), Flores-Gallegos AC(2), Martínez-Hernández 
JL(1), Rodríguez-Herrera R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology Department, School of Chemistry, Universidad Autónoma de
Coahuila, Blvd. V. Carranza e Ing. José Cárdenas V. s/n. Col. República Ote, C.P.
25280, Saltillo, Coahuila, Mexico.
(2)Food Research Department, School of Chemistry, Universidad Autónoma de
Coahuila, Blvd. V. Carranza e Ing. José Cárdenas V. s/n. Col. República Ote, C.P.
25280, Saltillo, Coahuila, Mexico.
(3)Food Research Department, School of Chemistry, Universidad Autónoma de
Coahuila, Blvd. V. Carranza e Ing. José Cárdenas V. s/n. Col. República Ote, C.P.
25280, Saltillo, Coahuila, Mexico. raul.rodriguez@uadec.edu.mx.

Penicillin acylases (penicillin amidohydrolase, EC 3.5.1.11) are a group of
enzymes with many applications within the pharmaceutical industry, and one of
them is the production of semi-synthetic beta-lactam antibiotics. This enzyme is 
mainly produced by bacteria but also by some fungi. In the present study, the
filamentous fungus Mucor griseocyanus was used to produce penicillin acylase
enzyme (PGA). Its ability to express PGA enzyme in submerged fermentation process
was assessed, finding that this fungal strain produces the biocatalyst of
interest in an extracellular way at a level of 570 IU/L at 72 h of fermentation; 
in this case, a saline media using lactose as carbon source and penicillin G as
inducer was employed. In addition, a DNA fragment (859 bp) of the pga from a pure
Mucor griseocyanus strain was amplified, sequenced, and analyzed in silico. The
partial sequence of pga identified in the fungi showed high identity percentage
with penicillin G acylase sequences deposited in NCBI through BLAST, especially
with the β subunit of PGA from the Alcaligenes faecalis bacterium¸ which is a
region involved in the catalytic function of this protein. Besides, the
identification of domains in the penicillin G acylase sequence of Mucor
griseocyanus showed three conserved regions of this protein. The bioinformatic
results support the identity of the gen as penicillin G acylase. This is the
first report that involves sequencing and in silico analysis of Mucor
griseocyanus strain gene encoding PGA.

DOI: 10.1007/s10123-020-00137-x 
PMID: 32705496 

