
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Mar 20;11:383. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00383. eCollection
2020.

Featured Gut Microbiomes Associated With the Progression of Chronic Hepatitis B
Disease.

Chen Z(1)(2)(3), Xie Y(1)(2), Zhou F(2), Zhang B(1)(2), Wu J(1)(2), Yang L(4), Xu
S(5), Stedtfeld R(6), Chen Q(1)(2), Liu J(2), Zhang X(1), Xu H(1)(2), Ren
J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Zhongshan Hospital Xiamen University, Xiamen, 
China.
(2)Institute for Microbial Ecology, School of Medicine, Xiamen University,
Xiamen, China.
(3)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Xiamen University, Xiamen,
China.
(4)School of Life Sciences, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.
(5)Fisheries College, Jimei University, Xiamen, China.
(6)Civil and Environmental Engineering, Michigan State University, East Lansing, 
MI, United States.

Dysbiosis of gut microbiota during the progression of HBV-related liver disease
is not well understood, as there are very few reports that discuss the featured
bacterial taxa in different stages. The aim of this study was to reveal the
featured bacterial species whose abundances are directly associated with HBV
disease progression, that is, progression from healthy subjects to, chronic HBV
infection, chronic hepatitis B to liver cirrhosis. Approximately 400 fecal
samples were collected, and 97 samples were subjected to 16S rRNA gene sequencing
after age and BMI matching. Compared with the healthy individuals, significant
gut microbiota alterations were associated with the progression of liver disease.
LEfSe results showed that the HBV infected patients had higher Fusobacteria,
Veillonella, and Haemophilus abundance while the healthy individuals had higher
levels of Prevotella and Phascolarctobacterium. Indicator analysis revealed that 
57 OTUs changed as the disease progressed, and their combination produced an AUC 
value of 90% (95% CI: 86-94%) between the LC and non-LC groups. In addition, the 
abundances of OTU51 (Dialister succinatiphilus) and OTU50 (Alistipes onderdonkii)
decreased as the disease progressed, and these results were further verified by
qPCR. The LC patients had the higher bacterial network complexity, which was
accompanied with a lower abundance of potential beneficial bacterial taxa, such
as Dialister and Alistipes, while they had a higher abundance of pathogenic
species within Actinobacteria. The compositional and network changes in the gut
microbiota in varied CHB stages, suggest the potential contributions of gut
microbiota in CHB disease progression.

Copyright Â© 2020 Chen, Xie, Zhou, Zhang, Wu, Yang, Xu, Stedtfeld, Chen, Liu,
Zhang, Xu and Ren.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00383 
PMCID: PMC7098974
PMID: 32265857 

