
1. Mol Microbiol. 2020 Apr;113(4):807-825. doi: 10.1111/mmi.14445. Epub 2020 Jan 6.

Fatty acid activation and utilization by Alistipes finegoldii, a representative
Bacteroidetes resident of the human gut microbiome.

Radka CD(1), Frank MW(1), Rock CO(1), Yao J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital,
Memphis, Tennessee.

Members of the Bacteroidetes phylum, represented by Alistipes finegoldii, are
prominent anerobic, Gram-negative inhabitants of the gut microbiome. The lipid
biosynthetic pathways were analyzed using bioinformatic analyses, lipidomics,
metabolic labeling and biochemistry to characterize exogenous fatty acid
metabolism. A. finegoldii only produced the saturated fatty acids. The most
abundant lipids were phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and sulfonolipid (SL). Neither
phosphatidylglycerol nor cardiolipin are present. PE synthesis is initiated by
the PlsX/PlsY/PlsC pathway, whereas the SL pathway is related to sphingolipid
biosynthesis. A. finegoldii incorporated medium-chain fatty acids (≤14 carbons)
into PE and SL after their elongation, whereas long-chain fatty acids (≥16
carbons) were not elongated. Fatty acids >16 carbons were primarily incorporated 
into the 2-position of phosphatidylethanolamine at the PlsC step, the only
biosynthetic enzyme that utilizes long-chain acyl-ACP. The ability to assimilate 
a broad-spectrum of fatty acid chain lengths present in the gut environment is
due to the expression of two acyl-acyl carrier protein (ACP) synthetases.
Acyl-ACP synthetase 1 had a substrate preference for medium-chain fatty acids and
synthetase 2 had a substrate preference for long-chain fatty acids. This unique
combination of synthetases allows A. finegoldii to utilize both the medium- and
long-chain fatty acid nutrients available in the gut environment to assemble its 
membrane lipids.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mmi.14445 
PMCID: PMC7176543 [Available on 2021-04-01]
PMID: 31876062 

