
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Mar 15;147:284-294. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.01.072. Epub 2020 Jan 8.

Native κ-carrageenan induced-colitis is related to host intestinal microecology.

Mi Y(1), Chin YX(1), Cao WX(1), Chang YG(1), Lim PE(2), Xue CH(1), Tang QJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Human Health Research Laboratory, College of Food Science and Engineering,
Ocean University of China, Qingdao 266003, Shandong, China.
(2)Institute of Ocean and Earth Sciences, University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur
50603, Malaysia.
(3)Human Health Research Laboratory, College of Food Science and Engineering,
Ocean University of China, Qingdao 266003, Shandong, China. Electronic address:
tangqingjuan@ouc.edu.cn.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including Crohn's disease and ulcerative
colitis, has gradually emerged as a public health challenge worldwide.
Carrageenan is a popular food additive that has been in use for decades. However,
controversy exists regarding to the safety of carrageenan due to its exacerbation
of colitis in experimental models. In this study, we studied the effects of
vehicle and host intestinal microflora on carrageenan inflammatory properties in 
C57BL/6 J mice. We found that in high-fat diet model, native carrageenan in
drinking water increased the disease activity index (DAI), myeloperoxidase (MPO) 
activity and the mRNA expression of TLR4 in colon, whereas
carrageenan-supplemented diet has no visible effects. However, no signs of
colitis were observed under low-fat diet regardless of the mode of vehicle used. 
Moreover, we discovered that carrageenan-induced colitis in high-fat diet model
was robustly correlated with changes in the composition of gut microbiota,
specifically Alistipes finegoldii and Bacteroides acidifaciens. Hence, we propose
that the inflammatory property of carrageenan is influenced greatly by its intake
form via modification of host intestinal microecology.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.01.072 
PMID: 31926226 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.

