
1. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2019 Oct 15;518(2):294-298. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.08.049. Epub 2019 Aug 13.

Characterization of fructooligosaccharide-degrading enzymes in human commensal
Bifidobacterium longum and Anaerostipes caccae.

Tanno H(1), Fujii T(2), Ose R(1), Hirano K(2), Tochio T(2), Endo A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food, Aroma and Cosmetic Chemistry, Faculty of Bioindustry,
Tokyo University of Agriculture, 196 Yasaka, Abashiri, 099-2493, Hokkaido, Japan.
(2)B Food Science Co., Ltd., 24-12 Kitahama, Chita, 478-0046, Aichi, Japan.
(3)Department of Food, Aroma and Cosmetic Chemistry, Faculty of Bioindustry,
Tokyo University of Agriculture, 196 Yasaka, Abashiri, 099-2493, Hokkaido, Japan.
Electronic address: a3endou@nodai.ac.jp.

Kestose and nystose are short chain fructooligosaccharides (scFOSs) with degrees 
of polymerization of 3 and 4, respectively. A previous study revealed that these 
scFOSs have different growth stimulation properties against two human commensals,
i.e. Bifidobacterium longum subsp. longum and butyrogenic Anaerostipes caccae.
The present study characterized genes involved in FOS metabolism in these
organisms. A. caccae possesses a single gene cluster consisting of four genes,
including a gene encoding the putative FOS degradation enzyme sucrose-6-phosphate
hydrolase (S6PH). B. longum possesses two gene clusters consisting of three genes
each, including genes encoding β-fructofuranosidase (CscA) and sucrose
phosphorylase (ScrP). In A. caccae, the genes were highly transcribed in cells
cultured with sucrose or kestose but poorly in cells cultured with glucose or
nystose. Heterologously expressed S6PH degraded sucrose and kestose but not
nystose. In B. longum, transcription of the genes was high in cells cultured with
sucrose or kestose but was poor or not detected in cells cultured with glucose or
nystose. Heterologously expressed CscA degraded sucrose, kestose and nystose, but
ScrP degraded only sucrose. These data suggested that the different growth
stimulation activities of kestose and nystose are due to different substrate
specificities of FOS degradation enzymes in the organisms and/or induction
activity of the genes in the two scFOSs. This is the first study characterizing
the FOS metabolism at the transcriptional level and substrate-specificity of the 
degradation enzyme in butyrogenic human gut anaerobes.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.08.049 
PMID: 31420164  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

