
1. Environ Monit Assess. 2020 Jul 14;192(8):516. doi: 10.1007/s10661-020-08470-4.

Comparative study on the microbial quality in the swimming pools disinfected by
the ozone-chlorine and chlorine processes in Tabriz, Iran.

Firuzi P(1), Asl Hashemi A(1), Samadi Kafil H(2), Gholizadeh P(2), Aslani H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Health Engineering, Tabriz University of Medical
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Drug Applied Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz,
Iran.
(3)Health and Environment Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences,
Tabriz, Iran. haslani@tbzmed.ac.ir.

Applying a desirable disinfestation process is necessary to control the
pathogenic microorganisms in the swimming pools and prevent both dermal and
intestinal effects. Therefore, the present study was conducted to compare the
bacterial community and diversity in the two swimming pools disinfected by the
chlorine and ozone (O3)-chlorine processes. A total of 24 samples were taken from
the two swimming pools in three distinct seasons to analyze the bacterial and
physico-chemical indicators. Culture and molecular methods were used to evaluate 
the microbial quality. Two sets of sample taken from the pools with the maximum
swimmer load in the summer were investigated by the next-generation sequencing
(NGS) technique. In total, 410 and 406 bacterial species were identified in the
chlorine- and ozone-chlorine-disinfected pools, respectively. Among the eight
dominant bacterial species in each swimming pool, Pseudomonas alcaliphila,
Pseudomonas stutzeri, and Pseudomonas acnes were common species between the two
studied pools. Oleomonas sagaranensis (350 reads/18593), Staphylococcus caprae
(302 reads /18593), and Anaerococcus octavius (110 reads/18593) were among the
dominant bacteria in the chlorine-disinfected pool. Bacterial diversity was lower
in the ozone-chlorine-disinfected pool than the other one, and the highest
bacterial sequencing belonged to the genus Pseudomonas (85.79%). Results showed
that water quality of in O3-chlorine-disinfected pool was more desirable than the
chlorine-disinfected pool. Molecular methods along with conventional culture
methods would be advantageous for microbial assessment in the swimming pools.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-020-08470-4 
PMID: 32666262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

