
1. Environ Microbiol. 2020 Jun;22(6):2273-2291. doi: 10.1111/1462-2920.15000. Epub
2020 Apr 5.

Predicting postmortem interval based on microbial community sequences and machine
learning algorithms.

Liu R(1), Gu Y(2), Shen M(3), Li H(4), Zhang K(1), Wang Q(5), Wei X(1), Zhang
H(1), Wu D(1), Yu K(1), Cai W(1), Wang G(1), Zhang S(4), Sun Q(1), Huang P(6),
Wang Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Forensic Medicine, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, 710061, China.
(2)School of Mathematics and Statistics, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an,
710061, China.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Xi'an
Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an, Shaanxi, 710061, China.
(4)Department of Microbiology and immunology, School of Basic Medical Sciences,
Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.
(5)Chongqing Medical University, College of Basic Medicine, Department of
Forensic Medicine, Chongqing, 400016, China.
(6)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Forensic Medicine, Shanghai Forensic Service
Platform, Academy of Forensic Science, Ministry of Justice, Shanghai, 200063,
China.

Microbes play an essential role in the decomposition process but were poorly
understood in their succession and behaviour. Previous researches have shown that
microbes show predictable behaviour that starts at death and changes during the
decomposition process. Research of such behaviour enhances the understanding of
decomposition and benefits estimating the postmortem interval (PMI) in forensic
investigations, which is critical but faces multiple challenges. In this study,
we combined microbial community characterization, microbiome sequencing from
different organs (i.e. brain, heart and cecum) and machine learning algorithms
[random forest (RF), support vector machine (SVM) and artificial neural network
(ANN)] to investigate microbial succession pattern during corpse decomposition
and estimate PMI in a mouse corpse system. Microbial communities exhibited
significant differences between the death point and advanced decay stages.
Enterococcus faecalis, Anaerosalibacter bizertensis, Lactobacillus reuteri, and
so forth were identified as the most informative species in the decomposition
process. Furthermore, the ANN model combined with the postmortem microbial data
set from the cecum, which was the best combination among all candidates, yielded 
a mean absolute error of 1.5 ± 0.8 h within 24-h decomposition and 14.5 ± 4.4 h
within 15-day decomposition. This integrated model can serve as a reliable and
accurate technology in PMI estimation.

© 2020 Society for Applied Microbiology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1462-2920.15000 
PMID: 32227435 

