
1. J Microbiol. 2019 Dec;57(12):1073-1078. doi: 10.1007/s12275-019-9268-3. Epub 2019
Nov 4.

Anaerotignum faecicola sp. nov., isolated from human faeces.

Choi SH(1), Kim JS(1), Park JE(1), Lee KC(1), Eom MK(1), Oh BS(1), Yu SY(1), Kang
SW(1), Han KI(1), Suh MK(1), Lee DH(2), Yoon H(2), Kim BY(3), Lee JH(3), Lee
JH(1), Lee JS(4)(5), Park SH(6).

Author information: 
(1)Korean Collection for Type Cultures, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience
and Biotechnology (KRIBB), Jeongeup, 56212, Republic of Korea.
(2)Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, 13620, Republic of
Korea.
(3)ChunLab, Inc., Seoul, 06725, Republic of Korea.
(4)Korean Collection for Type Cultures, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience
and Biotechnology (KRIBB), Jeongeup, 56212, Republic of Korea. jslee@kribb.re.kr.
(5)University of Science and Technology (UST), Daejeon, 34113, Republic of Korea.
jslee@kribb.re.kr.
(6)Korean Collection for Type Cultures, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience
and Biotechnology (KRIBB), Jeongeup, 56212, Republic of Korea.
biopark@kribb.re.kr.

A strictly anaerobic bacterium, designated as strain KGMB-03357T, was isolated
from the faeces of a healthy Korean selected by Bundang Seoul National University
based on health status. Cells of strain KGMB03357T are Gram-stain-positive,
non-motile, non-spore-forming, and observed as straight or curved rods. The
isolate grew at 10-45°C (optimum temperature of 40°C) and a pH range of 5.1-10.5 
(optimum pH of 6.8). Analysis of phylogenetic trees based on the 16S rRNA gene
sequences revealed that strain KGMB03357T forms a lineage within the genus
Anaerotignum, and is most closely related to Anaerotignum lactatifermentans G17T 
(= KCTC 15066T, 96.1%), Anaerotignum propionicum DSM 1682T (= KCTC 5582T, 94.9%),
Anaerotignum neopropionicum DSM 03847T (= KCTC 15564T, 94.9%), and Anaerotignum
aminivorans SH021T (= KCTC 15705T, 94.8%). The ANI values between strain KGMB
03357T and members of the genus Anaerotignum were 73.3-71.0%, which are below the
ANI criterion for interspecies identity. The DNA G + C content based on the
whole-genome sequence is 47.3 mol%. The major cellular fatty acids of strain
KGMB03357T are C16:0, C18:0, C18∶1 cis 9, and anteiso-C15∶0. Strain KGMB03357T
contains meso-diaminopimelic acid as the diagnostic amino acid in the cell wall
peptidoglycan. Based on the phenotypic, phylogenetic, and genomic properties,
strain KGMB 03357T represents a novel species of the genus Anaerotignum, for
which the name Anaerotignum faecicola sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is
KGMB03357T (= KCTC 15736T = DSM 107953T).

DOI: 10.1007/s12275-019-9268-3 
PMID: 31680219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

