
1. Molecules. 2019 Dec 26;25(1). pii: E100. doi: 10.3390/molecules25010100.

Efficient Synthesis of Purine Nucleoside Analogs by a New Trimeric Purine
Nucleoside Phosphorylase from Aneurinibacillus migulanus AM007.

Liu G(1), Cheng T(1), Chu J(2), Li S(2), He B(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech
University, Nanjing 211800, China.
(2)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing 211800,
China.

Purine nucleoside phosphorylases (PNPs) are promising biocatalysts for the
synthesis of purine nucleoside analogs. Although a number of PNPs have been
reported, the development of highly efficient enzymes for industrial applications
is still in high demand. Herein, a new trimeric purine nucleoside phosphorylase
(AmPNP) from Aneurinibacillus migulanus AM007 was cloned and heterologously
expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). The AmPNP showed good thermostability
and a broad range of pH stability. The enzyme was thermostable below 55 °C for 12
h (retaining nearly 100% of its initial activity), and retained nearly 100% of
the initial activity in alkaline buffer systems (pH 7.0-9.0) at 60 °C for 2 h.
Then, a one-pot, two-enzyme mode of transglycosylation reaction was successfully 
constructed by combining pyrimidine nucleoside phosphorylase (BbPyNP) derived
from Brevibacillus borstelensis LK01 and AmPNP for the production of purine
nucleoside analogs. Conversions of 2,6-diaminopurine ribonucleoside (1),
2-amino-6-chloropurine ribonucleoside (2), and 6-thioguanine ribonucleoside (3)
synthesized still reached >90% on the higher concentrations of substrates
(pentofuranosyl donor: purine base; 20:10 mM) with a low enzyme ratio of BbPyNP: 
AmPNP (2:20 μg/mL). Thus, the new trimeric AmPNP is a promising biocatalyst for
industrial production of purine nucleoside analogs.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25010100 
PMCID: PMC6983109
PMID: 31888088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

