
1. Spectrochim Acta A Mol Biomol Spectrosc. 2020 Apr 5;230:118055. doi:
10.1016/j.saa.2020.118055. Epub 2020 Jan 10.

An evolution-based designing and characterization of mutants of
cyclomaltodextrinase: Molecular modeling and spectroscopic studies.

Mehrvand J(1), Hayati Roodbari N(1), Hassani L(2), Jafarian V(3), Khalifeh K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad University,
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Institute for Advanced Studies in Basic
Sciences (IASBS), Zanjan, Iran.
(3)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Zanjan, Zanjan,
Iran. Electronic address: V.Jafarian@znu.ac.ir.
(4)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Zanjan, Zanjan,
Iran. Electronic address: khalifeh@znu.ac.ir.

Cyclomaltodextrinase (CDase) is a member of the alpha-amylase family GH13, the
subfamily GH13_20. In addition to CDase and neopullulanase, this subfamily also
contains maltogenic amylase. They have common structural features, but different 
substrate specificity. In current work, a combination of bioinformatics and
experimental tools were used for designing and constructions of single and double
mutants of a new variant of CDase from Anoxybacillus flavithermus. Considering
the evolutionary variable positions 123 and 127 at the dimer interface of
subunits in the alpha-amylase family, these positions in CDase were modified and 
three mutants, including A123V, C127Q and A123V/C127Q were constructed. The
tertiary structure of WT and mutants were made with the MODELLER program, and the
phylogenetic tree of homologous protein sequences was built with selected
programs in Phylip package. Enzyme kinetic studies revealed that the catalytic
efficiency of mutants, especially double one, is lower than the WT enzyme.
Heat-induced denaturation experiments were monitored by measuring the UV/Vis
signal at 280 nm, and it was found that WT protein is structurally more stable at
25 °C. However, it is more susceptible to changes in temperature compared to the 
double mutant. It was concluded that the positions 123 and 127 at the dimeric
interface of CDase, not only could affect the conformational stability; but also;
the catalytic properties of the enzyme by setting up the active site
configuration in the dimeric state.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.saa.2020.118055 
PMID: 31955121 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

