
1. J Food Prot. 2020 Jul 14. doi: 10.4315/JFP-20-195. [Epub ahead of print]

Sporeforming Bacteria Associated with Dairy Powders Can be Found in
Bacteriological Grade Agar-Agar Supply.

Skeens J(1), Wiedmann M(2), Martin NH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cornell University 320 Stocking Hall 411 Tower Rd UNITED STATES Ithaca New
York 14853 6072542838.
(2)Milk Quality Improvement Program, Department of Food Science, Cornell
University.

Thermophilic sporeforming bacteria are found ubiquitously in natural environments
and therefore are present in a number of agricultural food products. Spores
produced by these bacteria can survive harsh environmental conditions encountered
during food processing and have been implicated in food spoilage. During research
efforts to develop a standardized method for enumerating spores in dairy powders,
the dairy powder associated thermophilic sporeformer Anoxybacillus flavithermus
was discovered growing in un-inoculated control plates of Tryptic Soy agar (TSA) 
supplemented with 1% w/v starch, after incubation at thermophilic (55째C) growth
temperatures. This paper reports the investigation into the source of this
thermophilic sporeformer in TSA medium components and characterization of the
bacterial isolates collected. Aqueous solutions of Tryptic Soy broth (TSB) powder
from four suppliers and four agar-agar powders (two manufacturing lots from one
supplier; Agar A_1 and Agar A_2, and two from separate suppliers; Agar B and Agar
C) were subjected to two different autoclave cycle times (121째C for 15 min or
121째C for 30 min) and then prepared as TSA. After incubation at 55째C for 48h,
bacterial growth was only observed in media prepared from both lots of Agar A
agar-agar powder, and only when they were subjected to a 15 min autoclave cycle, 
implicating these powders as a source of the sporeformer contamination. Genetic
characterization of 49 isolates obtained indicated the presence of five unique
rpoB allelic types (ATs) of the thermophilic sporeformer, Geobacillus spp . in
agar-agar powder from Agar A. These results not only highlight the importance of 
microbiological controls, but also alert researchers to the potential for
survival of thermophilic sporeformers such as Anoxybacillus and Geobacillus in
microbiological media used for detection and enumeration of these same
thermophilic sporeformers in products like dairy powders.

DOI: 10.4315/JFP-20-195 
PMID: 32663274 

