
1. Extremophiles. 2020 Jul;24(4):519-536. doi: 10.1007/s00792-020-01173-1. Epub 2020
May 11.

Geothermal springs in Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh: potential sources of
hydrolase-producing thermophilic bacilli.

Panosyan H(1), Margaryan A(2), Birkeland NK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Microbiology and Biotechnology, Yerevan State
University, Alex Manoogian 1, 0025, Yerevan, Armenia. hpanosyan@ysu.am.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Microbiology and Biotechnology, Yerevan State
University, Alex Manoogian 1, 0025, Yerevan, Armenia.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Bergen, P.O. Box 7803, 5020, 
Bergen, Norway.

In recent years, scientists have increasingly focused on the microbial diversity 
of high-altitude hot springs to explore the biotechnological applications of
extremophiles. In this regard, a total of 107 thermophilic bacilli were isolated 
from 9 high-altitude mineralized geothermal springs (of temperatures ranging from
27.5 to 70 °C) located within the territory of Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh. The 
isolated bacilli were phylogenetically profiled and studied for their potential
to produce extracellular hydrolytic enzymes (protease, amylase, and lipase). The 
identification of isolates based on 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed their
relationship to members of more than 22 distinct species, of 8 different genera, 
namely Aeribacillus, Anoxybacillus, Bacillus, Brevibacillus, Geobacillus,
Parageobacillus, Paenibacillus and Ureibacillus. Bacillus licheniformis,
Parageobacillus toebii and Anoxybacillus flavithermus were found to be the most
abundant species in the springs that were studied. Some of the isolated bacilli
shared less than 91-97% sequence identity with their closest match in GenBank,
indicating that Armenian geothermal springs harbor novel bacilli, at least at the
species level. 71% of the isolates actively produced at least one or more
extracellular proteases, amylases, or lipases. In total, 22 strains (28.6%) were 
efficient producers of all three types of thermostable enzymes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00792-020-01173-1 
PMID: 32390108  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

