
1. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2019 Dec;131:109421. doi: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2019.109421.
Epub 2019 Sep 4.

Structural and functional consequences of replacement of His403 with Arg near the
catalytic site of Anoxybacillus flavithermus cyclomaltodextrinase.

Mirzaee Z(1), Jafarian V(2), Shirdel SA(3), Khalifeh K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Zanjan, Zanjan,
Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Zanjan, Zanjan,
Iran. Electronic address: V.Jafarian@znu.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Tarbiat Modares
University, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Zanjan, Zanjan,
Iran. Electronic address: khalifeh@znu.ac.ir.

The hydrolytic activity of a thermophilic cyclomaltodextrinase (CMD) from
Anoxybacillus flavithermus ZNU-NGA and a representative single mutant were
investigated against soluble substrates including α-, β- and
γ-cyclomaltodestrines (CDs). Based on the occurrence of arginine (Arg) at
position 403 in some homologue proteins, His403 in Wild-type (WT) CMD was
replaced with Arg (H403R variant) with site-directed mutagenesis procedures.
According to bioinformatics data, Arg403 in mutant protein is located near Glu357
as one of the catalytic residues in a manner that they are able to create a
medium-range attractive electrostatistic interaction. Structural studies by Far
UV-CD showed that this mutation is accompanied by conversion of a small fraction 
of α-helix to β-form structure. Fluorescence data reveals that, the hydrophobic
regions at the surface of protein, as the binding sites for ANS
(8-Anilinonaphthalene-1-sulfonic acid) increase in mutant protein, demonstrating 
relative inflation of H403R variant compared with WT protein. However, the
polarity of microenvironment around chromophores did not change upon mutation.
Activity measurement in different ranges of pH and temperatures showed that the
optimum values of pH and temperature in mutant enzyme is the same as WT enzyme,
however; the activity at optimum points increased in H403R variant. It was also
revealed that the H403R variant had slightly improved catalytic efficiency for
γ-CD. The same value of activation parameters for both protein variants indicates
that mutation does not alter the mechanism of catalysis during enzyme-substrate
formation.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2019.109421 
PMID: 31615670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

