
1. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2020 Jun;27(18):23035-23047. doi:
10.1007/s11356-020-08831-z. Epub 2020 Apr 24.

Baseline for plastic and hydrocarbon pollution of rivers, reefs, and sediment on 
beaches in Veracruz State, México, and a proposal for bioremediation.

Narciso-Ortiz L(1), Coreño-Alonso A(2), Mendoza-Olivares D(2), Lucho-Constantino 
CA(3), Lizardi-Jiménez MA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Tecnológico Superior de Tierra Blanca, Av. Veracruz S/N Esq. Héroes 
de Puebla, Colonia Pemex., C.P. 95180, Tierra Blanca, Veracruz, Mexico.
(2)Universidad de Guanajuato, Lascuráin de Retana No. 5, Colonia Centro, C.P.
36000, Guanajuato, Gto., Mexico.
(3)Centro de Investigaciones Químicas, Universidad Autónoma del Estado de
Hidalgo, Carr. Pachuca-Tulancingo km 4.5, Ciudad Universitaria, C.P. 42184,
Mineral de la Reforma, Hidalgo, Mexico.
(4)CONACYT-Universidad Autónoma de San Luis Potosí, Sierra Leona 550, Lomas 2da
Secc, 78210, San Luis Potosí, Mexico. chamarripas@yahoo.com.mx.

Plastic and hydrocarbon pollution in aquatic ecosystems is a worldwide reality
and serious concern today. Plastic debris presents a threat to ecosystems and
organisms. Hydrocarbons are also considered priority pollutants. The
hydrophobicity of the polymer in combination with the high surface area causes
plastics to act as a vector for organic contaminants such as hydrocarbons. The
first aim of this work was to evaluate the presence of plastic and hydrocarbon
pollution in water from two reefs and two rivers and to identify plastic in six
sediment beaches in Veracruz State, Mexico. In addition, the second aim was to
analyse the ability of a bacterial consortium to biodegrade hydrocarbons in an
airlift bioreactor and to identify degrading bacterial strains of polyethylene
terephthalate (PET). Microplastics (100 nm-5 mm) were found in four water
samples. Fragments of plastic collected from the reefs ranged in size from 0.716 
to 32 μm and in rivers from 0.833 to 784 μm. On the sediment beaches,
macroplastics of sizes 2-10 cm were detected. A number of hydrocarbons were also 
detected in the water samples of both reefs and one river, including n-octane,
n-nonane, phenanthrene, n-eicosane, n-dotriacontane, n-hexatriacontane,
n-triacontane, and n-tetratriacontane. As a biotechnological alternative for
remediation of hydrocarbons and plastics, we attempted to produce a collection of
native microorganisms able to degrade them. This work shows results from the
bioprospection of a bacterial consortium (Xanthomonas, Acinetobacter bouvetii,
Shewanella, and Aquamicrobium lusatiense) for hydrocarbon biodegradation in an
airlift bioreactor. The tested consortium was able to successfully degrade the
maximum diesel concentration (20 g L-1) tested for 10 days. Also, the first
visual evidence of PET degradation by an isolated forest-native bacterial strain 
showed that Bacillus muralis is the most efficient degrader.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-020-08831-z 
PMID: 32333346  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

