
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 May;70(5):3027-3036. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004125.

Arthrobacter bussei sp. nov., a pink-coloured organism isolated from cheese made 
of cow's milk.

Flegler A(1), Runzheimer K(1), Kombeitz V(1), Mänz AT(1), Heidler von Heilborn
D(1), Etzbach L(2), Schieber A(2), Hölzl G(3), Hüttel B(4), Woehle C(4), Lipski
A(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Bonn, Institute of Nutritional and Food Science, Food
Microbiology and Hygiene, Endenicher Allee 19B, 53115 Bonn, Germany.
(2)University of Bonn, Institute of Nutritional and Food Science, Molecular Food 
Technology, Endenicher Allee 19B, 53115 Bonn, Germany.
(3)University of Bonn, Institute of Molecular Physiology and Biotechnology of
Plants (IMBIO), 53115 Bonn, Germany.
(4)Max Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research, Max Planck-Genome-Centre
Cologne (MP-GC), Carl-von-Linné-Weg 10, 50829 Cologne, Germany.

A pink-coloured bacterium (strain KR32T) was isolated from cheese and assigned to
the 'Arthrobacter agilis group'. Members of the 'pink Arthrobacter agilis group' 
form a stable clade (100 % bootstrap value) and contain the species Arthrobacter 
agilis, Arthrobacter ruber and Arthrobacter echini, which share ≥99.0 % 16S rRNA 
gene sequence similarity. Isolate KR32T showed highest 16S rRNA gene sequence
similarity (99.9 %) to A. agilis DSM 20550T. Additional multilocus sequence
comparison confirmed the assignment of strain KR32T to the clade 'pink A. agilis 
group'. Average nucleotide identity and digital DNA-DNA hybridization values
between isolate KR32T and A. agilis DSM 20550T were 82.85 and 26.30 %,
respectively. The G+C content of the genomic DNA of isolate KR32T was 69.14 mol%.
Chemotaxonomic analysis determined anteiso-C15 : 0 as the predominant fatty acid 
and MK-9(H2) as the predominant menaquinone. Polar lipids were
diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylinositol and
monoacyldimannosyl-monoacylglycerol. The peptidoglycan type of the isolate was
A3α. The carotenoid bacterioruberin was detected as the major pigment. At 10 °C, 
strain KR32T grew with increased concentrations of bacterioruberin and production
of unsaturated fatty acids. Strain KR32T was a Gram-stain-positive,
catalase-positive, oxidase-positive and coccus-shaped bacterium with optimal
growth at 27-30 °C and pH 8. The results of phylogenetic and phenotypic analyses 
enabled the differentiation of the isolate from other closely related species of 
the 'pink A. agilis group'. Therefore, strain KR32T represents a novel species
for which the name Arthrobacter bussei sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is
KR32T (=DSM 109896T=LMG 31480T=NCCB 100733T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004125 
PMID: 32223834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

