
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Sep;77(9):2042-2048. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02070-8. Epub
2020 Jun 25.

Arthrobacter crusticola sp. nov., Isolated from Biological Soil Crusts in the Mu 
Us Sandy Land, China.

Liu L(1), Liang L(1), He S(2), Xu L(1), Chi M(1)(3), Shi S(1), Zhang X(4), Li
L(5).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Tree Genetics and Breeding, Key Laboratory of Tree
Breeding and Cultivation of the State Forestry Administration, Research Institute
of Forestry, Chinese Academy of Forestry, Beijing, 100091, People's Republic of
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Microbial Resources Collection and Preservation, Ministry of
Agriculture, Institute of Agricultural Resources and Regional Planning, Chinese
Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100081, People's Republic of China.
(3)Beijing Botanical Garden, Beijing, 100093, People's Republic of China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Microbial Resources Collection and Preservation, Ministry of
Agriculture, Institute of Agricultural Resources and Regional Planning, Chinese
Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100081, People's Republic of China.
zhangxiaoxia@caas.cn.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Tree Genetics and Breeding, Key Laboratory of Tree
Breeding and Cultivation of the State Forestry Administration, Research Institute
of Forestry, Chinese Academy of Forestry, Beijing, 100091, People's Republic of
China. lilubin@126.com.

Mu Us Sandy Land in China is a very fragile ecological environment due to serious
desertification. While attempting to gain insights into the biodiversity of
biological soil crusts of Mu Us Sandy Land, a novel bacterial strain, SLN-3T, was
isolated. It was phylogenetically placed into the genus Arthrobacter within the
family Micrococcaceae based on its 16S rRNA gene sequence. The most closely
related species were Arthrobacter ruber MDB1-42T (98.6%) and Arthrobacter agilis 
DSM 20550T (98.3%). Cells of the novel species were Gram-stain-positive, aerobic,
and non-endospore-forming. The values of average nucleotide identity and the
digital DNA-DNA hybridization between SLN-3T and MDB1-42T were 84.9% and 21.3%,
respectively. The draft genome size of strain SLN-3T was 3.67 Mb, and its genomic
G+C content was 68.1%. The predominant cellular fatty acids were anteiso-C15:0
and C17:0 anteiso. Glucose, galactose, and ribose were the whole-cell sugars. The
polar lipids consisted of diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol,
phosphatidylinositol, glycolipid, and phospholipid. The peptidoglycan contained
lysine, glutamic acid, and alanine. The predominant menaquinone was MK-9(H2).
Based on the data from the chemotaxonomic, phylogenetic, and phenotypic evidence,
a novel species named Arthrobacter crusticola sp. nov is proposed, whose type
strain is SLN-3T (= ACCC 61595T = JCM 33723T).

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02070-8 
PMID: 32583159 

