
1. Sci Rep. 2020 May 21;10(1):8426. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-65314-4.

Metabolomic effects of the colonization of Medicago truncatula by the facultative
endophyte Arthrobacter agilis UMCV2 in a foliar inoculation system.

Ramírez-Ordorica A(1), Valencia-Cantero E(1), Flores-Cortez I(1), Carrillo-Rayas 
MT(2), Elizarraraz-Anaya MIC(2), Montero-Vargas J(2), Winkler R(2),
Macías-Rodríguez L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones Químico Biológicas, Universidad Michoacana de San
Nicolás de Hidalgo, Edifico B3, Ciudad Universitaria, C. P. 58030, Morelia,
Michoacán, México.
(2)Department of Biotechnology and Biochemistry, Cinvestav Unidad Irapuato. Km.
9.6 Libramiento Norte Carr. Irapuato-León. C. P. 36824, Irapuato, Guanajuato,
México.
(3)Instituto de Investigaciones Químico Biológicas, Universidad Michoacana de San
Nicolás de Hidalgo, Edifico B3, Ciudad Universitaria, C. P. 58030, Morelia,
Michoacán, México. lmacias@umich.mx.

Biofertilizer production and application for sustainable agriculture is already a
reality. The methods for biofertilizers delivery in crop fields are diverse.
Although foliar spray is gaining wide acceptance, little is known about the
influence that the biochemical features of leaves have on the microbial
colonization. Arthrobacter agilis UMCV2 is a rhizospheric and endophytic bacteria
that promotes plant growth and health. In this study, we determined the capacity 
of the UMCV2 strain to colonize different leaves from Medicago truncatula in a
foliar inoculation system. By using two powerful analytical methods based on mass
spectrometry, we determined the chemical profile of the leaves in 15-d old
plants. The metabolic signatures between the unifoliate leaf (m1) and the
metameric units developing above (m2 and m3) were different, and interestingly,
the highest colony forming units (CFU) was found in m1. The occurrence of the
endophyte strongly affects the sugar composition in m1 and m2 leaves. Our results
suggest that A. agilis UMCV2 colonize the leaves under a foliar inoculation
system independently of the phenological age of the leaf and it is capable of
modulating the carbohydrate metabolism without affecting the rest of the
metabolome.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-65314-4 
PMCID: PMC7242375
PMID: 32439840 

