
1. Folia Microbiol (Praha). 2020 Jun;65(3):523-532. doi: 10.1007/s12223-019-00756-6.
Epub 2019 Dec 13.

The volatile organic compound dimethylhexadecylamine affects bacterial growth and
swarming motility of bacteria.

Martínez-Cámara R(1), Montejano-Ramírez V(1), Moreno-Hagelsieb G(2), Santoyo
G(1), Valencia-Cantero E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones Químico Biológicas, Universidad Michoacana de San
Nicolás de Hidalgo, Morelia, Michoacán, México.
(2)Department of Biology, Wilfrid Laurier University, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Instituto de Investigaciones Químico Biológicas, Universidad Michoacana de San
Nicolás de Hidalgo, Morelia, Michoacán, México. vcantero@umich.mx.

Bacteria have developed different intra- and inter-specific communication
mechanisms that involve the production, release, and detection of signaling
molecules, because these molecules serve as the autoinducers involved in "quorum 
sensing" systems. Other communication mechanisms employ volatile signaling
molecules that regulate different bacterial processes. The Arthrobacter agilis
strain UMCV2 is a plant growth promoting actinobacterium, which induces plant
growth and inhibits phytopathogenic fungi by emitting the dimethylhexadecylamine 
(DMHDA). However, little is known about the effect of this volatile compound on
A. agilis UMCV2 itself, as well as on other bacteria. By exposing A. agilis UMCV2
and bacteria of the genus Bacillus and Pseudomonas to different concentrations of
DMHDA, this study showed the dose-dependent effects of DMHDA on A. agilis UMCV2
growth, cellular viability, swarming motility, and expression of marker genes of 
the flagellar apparatus of bacteria. DMHDA was found to also modulate swarming
motility of Bacillus sp. ZAP018 and P. fluorescens UM270, but not that of P.
aeruginosa PA01. These data indicate that DMHDA is involved in both intra- and
inter-specific bacterial interaction.

DOI: 10.1007/s12223-019-00756-6 
PMID: 31834593 

