
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Aug 3;10(1):13019. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-69509-7.

Genome-scale reconstruction of Paenarthrobacter aurescens TC1 metabolic model
towards the study of atrazine bioremediation.

Ofaim S(1)(2), Zarecki R(1)(3), Porob S(3), Gat D(3), Lahav T(1), Kashi Y(2), Aly
R(1), Eizenberg H(1), Ronen Z(3), Freilich S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Newe Ya'ar Research Center, Agricultural Research Organization, Ramat Yishay, 
Israel.
(2)Faculty of Biotechnology and Food Engineering, Technion-Israel Institute of
Technology, Haifa, Israel.
(3)Department of Environmental Hydrology and Microbiology, Zuckerberg Institute
for Water Research, Jacob Blaustein Institutes for Desert Research, Ben-Gurion
University of the Negev, Midreshet Ben-Gurion, 8499000, Beersheba, Israel.
(4)Newe Ya'ar Research Center, Agricultural Research Organization, Ramat Yishay, 
Israel. shiri.freilich@gmail.com.

Atrazine is an herbicide and a pollutant of great environmental concern that is
naturally biodegraded by microbial communities. Paenarthrobacter aurescens TC1 is
one of the most studied degraders of this herbicide. Here, we developed a genome 
scale metabolic model for P. aurescens TC1, iRZ1179, to study the atrazine
degradation process at organism level. Constraint based flux balance analysis and
time dependent simulations were used to explore the organism's phenotypic
landscape. Simulations aimed at designing media optimized for supporting growth
and enhancing degradation, by passing the need in strain design via genetic
modifications. Growth and degradation simulations were carried with more than 100
compounds consumed by P. aurescens TC1. In vitro validation confirmed the
predicted classification of different compounds as efficient, moderate or poor
stimulators of growth. Simulations successfully captured previous reports on the 
use of glucose and phosphate as bio-stimulators of atrazine degradation,
supported by in vitro validation. Model predictions can go beyond supplementing
the medium with a single compound and can predict the growth outcomes for higher 
complexity combinations. Hence, the analysis demonstrates that the exhaustive
power of the genome scale metabolic reconstruction allows capturing complexities 
that are beyond common biochemical expertise and knowledge and further support
the importance of computational platforms for the educated design of complex
media. The model presented here can potentially serve as a predictive tool
towards achieving optimal biodegradation efficiencies and for the development of 
ecologically friendly solutions for pollutant degradation.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-69509-7 
PMCID: PMC7398907
PMID: 32747737 

