
1. Environ Sci Process Impacts. 2020 Mar 1;22(3):792-801. doi: 10.1039/c9em00503j.
Epub 2020 Feb 24.

Compound-specific chlorine isotope fractionation in biodegradation of atrazine.

Lihl C (1), Heckel B , Grzybkowska A , Dybala-Defratyka A , Ponsin V , Torrentó C
, Hunkeler D , Elsner M .

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Groundwater Ecology, Helmholtz Zentrum München, Ingolstädter
Landstraße 1, 85764 Neuherberg, Germany. m.elsner@tum.de.

Atrazine is a frequently detected groundwater contaminant. It can be microbially 
degraded by oxidative dealkylation or by hydrolytic dechlorination.
Compound-specific isotope analysis is a powerful tool to assess its
transformation. In previous work, carbon and nitrogen isotope effects were found 
to reflect these different transformation pathways. However, chlorine isotope
fractionation could be a particularly sensitive indicator of natural
transformation since chlorine isotope effects are fully represented in the
molecular average while carbon and nitrogen isotope effects are diluted by
non-reacting atoms. Therefore, this study explored chlorine isotope effects
during atrazine hydrolysis with Arthrobacter aurescens TC1 and oxidative
dealkylation with Rhodococcus sp. NI86/21. Dual element isotope slopes of
chlorine vs. carbon isotope fractionation (Λ = 1.7 ± 0.9 vs. Λ = 0.6 ± 0.1) and
chlorine vs. nitrogen isotope fractionation (Λ = -1.2 ± 0.7 vs. Λ = 0.4 ± 0.2)
provided reliable indicators of different pathways. Observed chlorine isotope
effects in oxidative dealkylation (εCl = -4.3 ± 1.8‰) were surprisingly large,
whereas in hydrolysis (εCl = -1.4 ± 0.6‰) they were small, indicating that C-Cl
bond cleavage was not the rate-determining step. This demonstrates the importance
of constraining expected isotope effects of new elements before using the
approach in the field. Overall, the triple element isotope information brought
forward here enables a more reliable identification of atrazine sources and
degradation pathways.

DOI: 10.1039/c9em00503j 
PMID: 32091522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

