
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 Mar 2;86(6). pii: e02487-19. doi:
10.1128/AEM.02487-19. Print 2020 Mar 2.

Biodegradation of Ephedrine Isomers by Arthrobacter sp. Strain TS-15: Discovery
of Novel Ephedrine and Pseudoephedrine Dehydrogenases.

Shanati T(1), Ansorge-Schumacher MB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biotechnology, Faculty of Biology, Technische Universität Dresden,
Dresden, Germany.
(2)Molecular Biotechnology, Faculty of Biology, Technische Universität Dresden,
Dresden, Germany marion.ansorge@tu-dresden.de.

The Gram-positive soil bacterium Arthrobacter sp. strain TS-15 (DSM 32400), which
is capable of metabolizing ephedrine as a sole source of carbon and energy, was
isolated. According to 16S rRNA gene sequences and comparative genomic analysis, 
Arthrobacter sp. TS-15 is closely related to Arthrobacter aurescens Distinct from
all known physiological paths, ephedrine metabolism by Arthrobacter sp. TS-15 is 
initiated by the selective oxidation of the hydroxyl function at the α-C atom,
yielding methcathinone as the primary degradation product. Rational genome mining
revealed a gene cluster potentially encoding the novel pathway. Two genes from
the cluster, which encoded putative short-chain dehydrogenases, were cloned and
expressed in Escherichia coli The obtained enzymes were strictly NAD+ dependent
and catalyzed the oxidation of ephedrine to methcathinone. Pseudoephedrine
dehydrogenase (PseDH) selectively converted (S,S)-(+)-pseudoephedrine and
(S,R)-(+)-ephedrine to (S)- and (R)-methcathinone, respectively. Ephedrine
dehydrogenase (EDH) exhibited strict selectivity for the oxidation of the
diastereomers (R,S)-(-)-ephedrine and (R,R)-(-)-pseudoephedrine.IMPORTANCE
Arthrobacter sp. TS-15 is a newly isolated bacterium with the unique ability to
degrade ephedrine isomers. The initiating steps of the novel metabolic pathway
are described. Arthrobacter sp. TS-15 and its isolated ephedrine-oxidizing
enzymes have potential for use in decontamination and synthetic applications.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02487-19 
PMCID: PMC7054094
PMID: 31900306 

