
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Aug 25. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004414. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Arthrobacter yangruifuii sp. nov. and Arthrobacter zhaoguopingii sp. nov., two
new members of the genus Arthrobacter.

Ge Y(1), Tao Y(1), Yang J(2)(3)(1), Lai XH(4), Jin D(2)(3)(1), Lu S(2)(3)(1),
Huang Y(3), Luo X(3), Zhou J(3), Zhang X(1), Xu J(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center, Fudan University, Shanghai 201508, PR 
China.
(2)Research Units of Discovery of Unknown Bacteria and Function, Chinese Academy 
of Medical Sciences, Beijing, PR China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Infectious Disease Prevention and Control, National
Institute for Communicable Disease Control and Prevention, Chinese Center for
Disease Control and Prevention, Changping, Beijing 102206, PR China.
(4)Henan Key Laboratory of Biomolecular Recognition and Sensing, College of
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Henan Joint International Research Laboratory
of Chemo/Biosensing and Early Diagnosis of Major Diseases, Shangqiu Normal
University, Shangqiu 476000, PR China.

Four unknown strains belonging to the genus Arthrobacter were isolated from
plateau wildlife on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau of PR China. Phylogenetic analysis 
based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that the four isolates were separated
into two clusters. Cluster I (strains 785T and 208) had the greatest 16S rRNA
gene sequence similarity to Arthrobacter citreus (98.6 and 98.7 %, respectively),
Arthrobacter luteolus (98.0 and 98.1%, respectively), Arthrobacter gandavensis
(97.9 and 98.0 %, respectively) and Arthrobacter koreensis (97.6 and 97.7 %,
respectively). Likewise, cluster II (strains J391T and J915) had the highest
sequence similarity to Arthrobacter ruber (98.6 and 98.3 %, respectively) and
Arthrobacter agilis (98.1 and 97.9  %, respectively). Average nucleotide identity
and the digital DNA-DNA hybridization values illustrated that the two type
strains, 785T and J391T, represented two separate novel species that are distinct
from all currently recognized species in the genus Arthrobacter. These strains
had DNA G+C contents of 66.0-66.1 mol% (cluster I) and 68.0 mol% (cluster II).
The chemotaxonomic properties of strains 785T and J391T were in line with those
of the genus Arthrobacter: anteiso-C15:0 (79.3 and 40.8 %, respectively) as the
major cellular fatty acid, MK-8(H2) (65.8 %) or MK-9(H2) (75.6 %) as the
predominant respiratory quinone, a polar lipid profile comprising
diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylinositol, glycolipids
and phospholipid, and A3α or A4α as the cell wall peptidoglycan type. On the
basis of our results, two novel species in the genus Arthrobacter are proposed,
namely Arthrobacter yangruifuii sp. nov. (type strain, 785T=CGMCC 1.16725T=GDMCC 
1.1592T=JCM 33491T) and Arthrobacter zhaoguopingii sp. nov. (type strain,
J391T=CGMCC 1.17382T=GDMCC 1.1667T=JCM 33841T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004414 
PMID: 32841110 

