
1. Klin Lab Diagn. 2020;65(5):328-331. doi: 10.18821/0869-2084-2020-65-5-328-331.

[Etiology of purulent-inflammatory processes in the genital tract: suspicions of 
clinicians and problems of laboratory confirmation.]

[Article in Russian]

Oborin DA(1), Nikolaeva NV(2), Godovalov AP(2), Karpunina TI(2).

Author information: 
(1)Perm Regional Center for the Prevention and Control of AIDS and Infectious
Diseases, 614088, Perm, Russian Federation.
(2)E.A. Vagner Perm State Medical University, 614990, Perm, Russian Federation.

Despite the long history of the study, laboratory diagnosis of gonococcal
infection remains a complex task that does not have a clearly regulated effective
solution. Aim of investigation was to assess the species diversity of the
microbiota of the genital tract of men and women with suspected acute genital
gonococcal infection (AGGI) using test systems of Russian manufacturers. A study 
of samples of the contents of the urethra of 69 men and posterior vaginal fornix 
fluids of 33 women of reproductive age with characteristic clinical
manifestations and a presumptive diagnosis of AGGI was made. Cultivation was
carried out using elective culture media with subsequent identification of
strains by biochemical properties. Detection of DNA of Neisseria gonorrhoeae,
Staphylococcus spp., Streptococcus spp., Enterobacteriaceae, Gardnerella
vaginalis, Atopobium vaginae, Lactobacillus spp. performed by PCR using
Vektor-Best and InterLab Service kits (Russia). All patients were divided into
groups according to the results of the bacteriological method and PCR. A
metagenomic study of 16S ribosomal RNA samples was performed on the Illumina
MiSeq platform using the MiSeq Reagent Kits v3 kit (600-Cycle Kit). Statistical
analysis of the data was performed using criterion x2. As a result of a
laboratory study, the presumptive clinical diagnosis of «AGGI» found its
bacteriological confirmation in 35.3% of cases only, among which fragments of the
N. gonorrhoeae genome were detected in 63.9% of the samples only. Moreover, a
wide variety of microorganisms in the genital tract of both men and women was
found in metagenomic analysis. However, this technique does not allow us to
assess the viability of the detected bacteria, and the microflora spectrum is
excessively wide. In addition, the high level of genetic polymorphism of
different strains of N. gonorrhoeae complicates the interpretation of the
results. Deciphering the composition of microbiota allows the use of InterLab
Service kits. The decoding of the etiology of purulent-inflammatory processes in 
the genital tract, which presents serious difficulties, is greatly facilitated by
the use of Russian kits for molecular genetic analysis, which, in our opinion,
provide the necessary and sufficient information for practice.

DOI: 10.18821/0869-2084-2020-65-5-328-331 
PMID: 32298551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

