
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Mar 2;10(1):3824. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-60760-6.

Optimization of concurrent production of xylanolytic and pectinolytic enzymes by 
Bacillus safensis M35 and Bacillus altitudinis J208 using agro-industrial biomass
through Response Surface Methodology.

Thite VS(1)(2), Nerurkar AS(3), Baxi NN(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Biotechnology Centre, Faculty of Science, The
Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda, Vadodara, Gujarat, 390002, India.
thitevihang87@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences and Biotechnology, Institute of Advanced
Research, Koba institutional area, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, 382426, India.
thitevihang87@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Biotechnology Centre, Faculty of Science, The
Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda, Vadodara, Gujarat, 390002, India.

Application of crude xylanolytic and pectinolytic enzymes in diverse industrial
processes make these enzymes commercially valuable and demand their production
process to be cost-effective. Out of four different agrowaste biomass, wheat bran
(WB) and citrus peel (CP), when amended as fermentation substrates, respectively 
induced the highest xylanolytic enzymes and pectinolytic enzymes from both, B.
safensis M35 and B. altitudinis J208. Further, the simultaneous amendment of WB
and CP yielded concurrent production of these cellulase free xylanolytic and
pectinolytic enzymes. Hence, the quadratic model was developed using the Central 
Composite Design of Response Surface Method (CCD-RSM). The model gave the
concentration values for WB and CP substrates to be amended in one single
production medium for obtaining two optimized predicted response values of
xylanase activity and pectinase activity units, which were further practically
validated for the xylanase and pectinase production responses from the optimized 
production medium (OPM). These practically obtained response values from OPM were
found to be in accordance with a range of 95% predicted intervalsÂ (PI) values.
These observations verified the validity of the predicted quadratic model from
RSM and suggested that both xylanase and pectinase enzymes can be induced
concurrently from both of the bacterial strains.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-60760-6 
PMCID: PMC7052231
PMID: 32123244 

