
1. Folia Microbiol (Praha). 2019 Nov;64(6):797-802. doi: 10.1007/s12223-019-00693-4.
Epub 2019 Mar 8.

Different immune response of dendritic cells of newborns of allergic and healthy 
mothers to bacterial stimuli.

Hrdý J(1), Novotná O(2), Petrásková P(2), Boráková K(3), Prokešová L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Immunology and Microbiology, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles
University, Studničkova 7, 128 00, Prague, Czech Republic. jiri.hrdy@lf1.cuni.cz.
(2)Institute of Immunology and Microbiology, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles
University, Studničkova 7, 128 00, Prague, Czech Republic.
(3)Institute for the Care of Mother and Child, Prague, Czech Republic.

Continuous increasing incidence of allergic diseases is calling for identifying
early prognostic markers pointing to increased risk of allergy development and
establishing protocols for preventive strategies limiting allergy development in 
predisposed individuals. It is important to better understand the critical events
occurring in early postnatal life, especially the interaction of a newborn with
microbial compounds important for the maturation of the neonatal immune system
and setting immunoregulatory responses as well. Dendritic cells (DC) together
with the cytokine microenvironment play an important role in priming of immune
responses. The capacity of monocyte-derived DC (moDC) from cord blood of children
of healthy and allergic mothers to respond to microbial antigens (Escherichia
coli O86 (EcO86) and delipidated Bacillus firmus (DBF)) was tested by flow
cytometry and quantitative real-time PCR. Both EcO86 and DBF were able to promote
maturation of moDC, but moDC of children of allergic mothers expressed higher
levels of activation markers CD80 and CD83. Increased gene expression of IL-6 and
lower expression of indol-amine 2,3 dioxygenase were observed in moDC of neonates
of allergic mothers, in comparison to healthy ones. A higher gene expression and 
an increased presence of activation markers on moDC of newborns of allergic
mothers indicate a generally higher reactivity of these cells, possibly enabling 
easier development of inappropriate immune response after an allergen encounter.

DOI: 10.1007/s12223-019-00693-4 
PMID: 30850938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

