
1. Microbiol Res. 2020 Jun 3;240:126516. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126516. [Epub
ahead of print]

Isolation of a novel rhizobacteria having multiple plant growth promoting traits 
and antifungal activity against certain phytopathogens.

Goswami M(1), Deka S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory, Life Sciences Division, Institute of
Advanced Study in Science and Technology (IASST), Vigyan Path, Paschim Boragaon, 
Garchuk, Guwahati, Assam 781035, India; Life Sciences Division, Department of
Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Cotton University, Panbazar, Guwahati, Assam
781001, India. Electronic address: madhurankhigoswami90@gmail.com.
(2)Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory, Life Sciences Division, Institute of
Advanced Study in Science and Technology (IASST), Vigyan Path, Paschim Boragaon, 
Garchuk, Guwahati, Assam 781035, India. Electronic address: sureshdeka@gmail.com.

The present study was conducted to explore the potentialities of a versatile
multifarious plant growth promoting rhizobacteria Bacillus altitudinis MS16
(GenBank Accession no. MG066459) and its effectiveness in phytopathogen
inhibition. B.altitudinis MS16 was evaluated in vitro and it was found to fix
82.80 ± 0.6 μg N ml-1 of culture media, can produce 40.74 ± 0.7 μg ml-1 of IAA,
release 7.72 ± 0.9 μg ml-1 of insoluble phosphorus and can secrete hydrolytic
enzymes. Apart from potassium and zinc solubilization, it exhibited robust
motility and biofilm forming abilities. The strain exhibits remarkable root
colonizing efficiency and act strongly against phytopathogens like Colletotrichum
gloeosporioides, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, Corynespora cassiicola, Fusarium
verticillioides and Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. Pisi with maximum inhibition against
S. sclerotiorum (83.0 %) under in-vitro conditions. Since the strain showed
promising activity against S. sclerotiorum (ITCC 4042), ultramicroscopic studies 
were undertaken to investigate their interaction pattern. Ultramicroscopic
observations involving SEM, CLSM and AFM revealed severely altered morphology of 
MS16 treated S. sclerotiorum mycelia. Leaf detached bioassay accompanied with in 
planta studies showed potential bio-control efficiency of MS16 with 95.7 ± 2.5 % 
inhibition obtained in leaf detached assay, 96.5 ± 1.7 % and 98.32 ± 0.56 %
inhibition in stem and leaf inoculation against S. sclerotiorum. Furthermore,
root colonization resulted in prominent root architectural changes. Seed
bacterization showed increase in plant growth attributes over the control under
in-vitro and in planta conditions. Therefore, the overall results demonstrate the
beneficial role of MS16 for growth promotion in mustard plants while controlling 
sclerotinia infection in mustard.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126516 
PMID: 32622988 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare no conflict of interest.

