
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Aug 23;21(17). pii: E6068. doi: 10.3390/ijms21176068.

Exploring Antifouling Activity of Biosurfactants Producing Marine Bacteria
Isolated from Gulf of California.

Alemán-Vega M(1), Sánchez-Lozano I(1), Hernández-Guerrero CJ(1), Hellio C(2),
Quintana ET(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Centro Interdisciplinario de Ciencias Marinas,
Av. Instituto Politécnico Nacional S/N. Col. Playa Palo de Santa Rita, 23096 La
Paz, Baja California Sur, Mexico.
(2)Univ Brest, CNRS, IRD, Ifremer, LEMAR, Institut Universitaire Européen de la
Mer, F-29280 Plouzané, France.
(3)Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biológicas,
Prolongación de Carpio y Plan de Ayala s/n, Col. Santo Tomás, Alcaldía Miguel
Hidalgo, C.P. 11340 Ciudad de Mexico, Mexico.

Biofouling causes major problems and economic losses to marine and shipping
industries. In the search for new antifouling agents, marine bacteria with
biosurfactants production capability can be an excellent option, due to the
amphipathic surface-active characteristic that confers antimicrobial and
antibiofilm activities. The aim of this study was to evaluate the antifouling
activity of biosurfactants producing marine bacteria from the Gulf of California.
The cell free culture supernatant (CFCS) of Bacillus niabensis (S-69), Ralstonia 
sp. (S-74) (isolated from marine sediment) and of B. niabensis (My-30) (bacteria 
associated to the sponge Mycale ramulosa) were screened for production of
biosurfactants (using hemolysis and drop collapse test, oil displacement and
emulsifying activity). The toxicity and antifouling activity were evaluated
against biofoulers (bacteria forming biofilm and macrofoulers) both in laboratory
and field assays. The results indicate that all bacteria were biosurfactant
producers, but the higher capability was shown by B. niabensis (My-30) with high 
emulsifying properties (E24) of 71%. The CFCS showed moderate toxicity but were
considered non-toxic against Artemia franciscana at low concentrations. In the
antifouling assay, the CFCS of both strains of B. niabensis showed the best
results for the reduction of the biofilm formation (up 50%) against all
Gram-positive bacteria and most Gram-negative bacteria with low concentrations.
In the field assay, the CFCS of B. niabensis (My-30) led to the reduction of 30% 
of biofouling compared to the control. The results indicate that the
biosurfactant produced by B. niabensis (My-30) has promising antifouling
activity.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21176068 
PMCID: PMC7504147
PMID: 32842499 

