
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Oct;104(20):8789-8799. doi:
10.1007/s00253-020-10893-5. Epub 2020 Sep 11.

Channel-pore cation selectivity is a major determinant of Bacillus thuringiensis 
Cry46Ab mosquitocidal activity.

Hayakawa T(1), Miyazaki M(2), Harada S(2), Asakura M(2), Ide T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Interdisciplinary Science and Engineering in Health
Systems, Okayama University, 3-1-1 Tsushima-naka, Kita-ku, Okayama, 700-8530,
Japan. hayaka-t@cc.okayama-u.ac.jp.
(2)Graduate School of Interdisciplinary Science and Engineering in Health
Systems, Okayama University, 3-1-1 Tsushima-naka, Kita-ku, Okayama, 700-8530,
Japan.

Cry46Ab from Bacillus thuringiensis TK-E6 is a new mosquitocidal toxin with an
aerolysin-type architecture, and it is expected to be used as a novel
bioinsecticide. Cry46Ab acts as a functional pore-forming toxin, and
characteristics of the resulting channel pores, including ion selectivity, have
been analyzed. However, the relationship between channel-pore ion selectivity and
insecticidal activity remains to be elucidated. To clarify the effects of charged
amino acid residues on the ion permeability of channel-pores and the resulting
insecticidal activity, in the present study, we constructed Cry46Ab mutants in
which a charged amino acid residue within a putative transmembrane β-hairpin
region was replaced with an oppositely charged residue. Bioassays using Culex
pipiens mosquito larvae revealed that the mosquitocidal activity was altered by
the mutation. A K155E Cry46Ab mutant exhibited toxicity apparently higher than
that of wild-type Cry46Ab, but the E159K and E163K mutants exhibited decreased
toxicity. Ions selectivity measurements demonstrated that the channel pores
formed by both wild-type and mutant Cry46Abs were cation selective, and their
cation preference was also similar. However, the degree of cation selectivity was
apparently higher in channel pores formed by the K155E mutant, and reduced
selectivity was observed with the E159K and E163K mutants. Our data suggest that 
channel-pore cation selectivity is a major determinant of Cry46Ab mosquitocidal
activity and that cation selectivity can be controlled via mutagenesis targeting 
the transmembrane β-hairpin region. KEY POINTS: • Cry46Ab mutants were
constructed by targeting the putative transmembrane β-hairpin region. • Charged
residues within the β-hairpin control the flux of ions through channel pores. •
Channel-pore cation selectivity is correlated with insecticidal activity.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10893-5 
PMID: 32915257 

