
1. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2020 Mar 4;12(9):10938-10948. doi:
10.1021/acsami.9b21465. Epub 2020 Feb 25.

Optimization of Sporulation and Germination Conditions of Functional Bacteria for
Concrete Crack-Healing and Evaluation of their Repair Capacity.

Jiang L(1)(2), Jia G(3)(2), Wang Y(4), Li Z(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Civil Engineering, Taiyuan University of Technology, Taiyuan,
Shanxi 030024, P. R. China.
(2)Shanxi Shengke Microorganism Building Materials Technology Co., Ltd., Taiyuan,
Shanxi 030032, P. R. China.
(3)Department of Civil Engineering, Shanxi University, Tauyuan, Shanxi 030013, P.
R. China.
(4)College of Materials Science and Engineering, Taiyuan University of
Technology, Taiyuan, Shanxi 030024, P. R. China.

While microbial spore production and germination of bacteria have been widely
studied for their applications in animal husbandry, aquatic products, medicine,
and food, few studies have investigated their use for the crack-healing of
concrete. To effectively heal the cracks in concrete, studies suggest that the
rate of sporulation and the germination of bacteria should be sufficiently high. 
This study investigates the effects of different carbon sources, nitrogen
sources, Mn2+ concentrations, and external culture conditions on the sporulation 
rate and analyzes the effects of the pH value, heat activation, germinants,
various cations, and nutrients on the germination of spores. Bacillus cohnii (B. 
cohnii) is chosen as the bacterium to be mixed in concrete because of its
alkalophilic nature. The mineralization activity of spores after germination and 
the crack-healing capacity of concrete are studied. The optimal culture medium
and the optimum external conditions for spore production are obtained. The total 
cell count and sporulation rate of bacteria obtained on this medium are 3.14 ×
109 CFU/mL and 92.6%, respectively, under the optimum external conditions. The
optimal pH value for the spore germination of B. cohnii is 9.7. While the cation 
Na+ strongly stimulates the germination of B. cohnii spores, other cations (such 
as K+, NH4+, and Ca2+) do not stimulate spore germination. The optimal
concentration of Na+ is 200 mM. The germination rate of spores in the control
group concrete specimen (room temperature 24°C) was more than 50%, thus
suggesting that B. cohnii bacteria can be used in the self-healing of concrete
cracks. The mineralization activity test proves that the spores of B. cohnii have
a mineralizing function after germination, and the crystals produced by
microbial-induced carbonate precipitation (MICP) are of pure calcite. When the
crack width of the concrete specimen with spores of B. cohnii is less than 1.2
mm, it can be completely repaired after 28 days of healing.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.9b21465 
PMID: 32023024 

