
1. Anim Nutr. 2020 Jun;6(2):152-159. doi: 10.1016/j.aninu.2020.02.004. Epub 2020 Mar
31.

Effects of benzoic acid, Bacillus coagulans and oregano oil combined
supplementation on growth performance, immune status and intestinal barrier
integrity of weaned piglets.

Pu J(1), Chen D(1), Tian G(1), He J(1), Zheng P(1), Mao X(1), Yu J(1), Huang
Z(1), Luo J(1), Luo Y(1), Yu B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for Animal Disease-Resistance Nutrition, Ministry of Education,
Institute of Animal Nutrition, Sichuan Agricultural University, Chengdu, 611130, 
China.

This experiment was conducted to investigate the effects of benzoic acid,
Bacillus coagulans and oregano oil combined supplementation on growth
performance, immune status and intestinal barrier integrity of piglets. In a 26-d
experiment, 25 piglets were randomly assigned to 5 treatments: 1) a basal diet,
negative control (NC), 2) NC added with antibiotics, positive control (PC); 3) NC
added with benzoic acid at 3,000 g/t and Bacillus coagulans at 400 g/t (AB); 4)
NC added with benzoic acid at 3,000 g/t and oregano oil at 400 g/t (AO); 5) NC
added with 3,000 g/t benzoic acid and Bacillus coagulans at 400 g/t and oregano
oil at 400 g/t (ABO). On d 27, all piglets were euthanized to obtain jejunal
mucosa to measure immune status and intestinal barrier integrity. Results showed 
that pigs fed AB diet increased the final body weight and average daily body
weight gain and decreased the ratio of feed to gain compared with NC group (P <
0.05). Compared with NC group, AB, AO and ABO decreased serum tumor necrosis
factor-α concentration and ABO decreased interleukin-1β concentration in serum
and jejunal mucosa (P < 0.05). Compared with NC group, AB up-regulated mRNA
expressions of sodium-glucose cotransporte1, claudin-1, occludin and mucin2 in
jejunal mucosa and the populations of Bifidobacterium and Bacillus in cecal
digesta (P < 0.05). Compared with NC group, ABO increased jejunal mucosal
occludin mRNA abundance and Bifidobacterium population in cecal digesta, and
decreased Escherichia coli population in cecal digesta (P < 0.05). Furthermore,
AB and ABO increased Bacillus population in cecal digesta compared with PC group 
(P < 0.05). These results indicated that dietary AB supplementation could improve
growth performance and intestinal barrier integrity of piglets when fed
antibiotic-free diets, which was possibly associated with the improvement of
immune status and intestinal microflora. Dietary ABO supplementation is also
beneficial to improve immune status and intestinal barrier integrity and
microflora of piglets.

© 2020 Chinese Association of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine. Production 
and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aninu.2020.02.004 
PMCID: PMC7283367
PMID: 32542195 

Conflict of interest statement: We declare that we have no financial and personal
relationships with other people or organizations that can inappropriately
influence our work, there is no professional or other personal interest of any
nature or kind in any product, service and/or company that could be construed as 
influencing the content of this paper.

