
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 May 19;11:985. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00985. eCollection
2020.

Describing the Individual Spore Variability and the Parameter Uncertainty in
Bacterial Survival Kinetics Model by Using Second-Order Monte Carlo Simulation.

Abe H(1), Koyama K(1), Takeoka K(1), Doto S(1), Koseki S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Agriculture Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.

The objective of this study was to separately describe the fitting uncertainty
and the variability of individual cell in bacterial survival kinetics during
isothermal and non-isothermal thermal processing. The model describing bacterial 
survival behavior and its uncertainties and variabilities during non-isothermal
inactivation was developed from survival kinetic data for Bacillus simplex spores
under fifteen isothermal conditions. The fitting uncertainties in the parameters 
used in the primary Weibull model was described by using the bootstrap method.
The variability of individual cells in thermotolerance and the true randomness in
the number of dead cells were described by using the Markov chain Monte Carlo
(MCMC) method. A second-order Monte Carlo (2DMC) model was developed by combining
both the uncertainties and variabilities. The 2DMC model was compared with
reduction behavior under three non-isothermal profiles for model validation. The 
bacterial death estimations were validated using experimentally observed
surviving bacterial count data. The fitting uncertainties in the primary Weibull 
model parameters, the individual thermotolerance heterogeneity, and the true
randomness of inactivated spore counts were successfully described under all the 
iso-thermal conditions. Furthermore, the 2DMC model successfully described the
variances in the surviving bacterial counts during thermal inactivation for all
three non-isothermal profiles. As a template for risk-based process designs, the 
proposed 2DMC simulation approach, which considers both uncertainty and
variability, can facilitate the selection of appropriate thermal processing
conditions ensuring both food safety and quality.

Copyright Â© 2020 Abe, Koyama, Takeoka, Doto and Koseki.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00985 
PMCID: PMC7248279
PMID: 32508792 

