
1. Microbiol Res. 2020 Jul 25;240:126562. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126562. [Epub
ahead of print]

Aspergillus and Fusarium control in the early stages of Arachis hypogaea
(groundnut crop) by plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) consortium.

Syed S(1), Tollamadugu NVKVP(2), Lian B(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Normal University, No. 1, WenYuan Road, Qi
Xia District, Nanjing, 210023, Jiangsu Province, China; Nanotechnology
Laboratory, Institute of Frontier Technology, Regional Agricultural Research
Station, ANGRAU, Tirupati, India. Electronic address: syeds962@gmail.com.
(2)Nanotechnology Laboratory, Institute of Frontier Technology, Regional
Agricultural Research Station, ANGRAU, Tirupati, India.
(3)College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Normal University, No. 1, WenYuan Road, Qi
Xia District, Nanjing, 210023, Jiangsu Province, China.

In this study, we have attempted to develop a plant growth promoting
rhizobacteria (PGPR) consortia against early-stage diseases in Arachis hypogaea
(Groundnut crop) plantation of Andhra Pradesh, India. The dominant PGPRs were
selected by considering the various plant growth and protection qualities,
followed by characterisation and grouping based on compatibility to form a
consortium of PGPRs [Group-1 includes EX-1 (Acinetobacter baumannii stain HAMBI
1846); EX-3 (Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain A1K319); EX-5 (Bacillus subterraneus
strain CF1.9); KNL-1 (Bacillus subtilis strain JMP-B); CTR-4 (Enterobacter
cloacae strain VITKJ1); ANT-4 (Bacillus subtilis strain SBMP4) and Group-2
includes EX-4 (Pseudomonas otitidis strain SLC8); KDP-4 (Pseudomonas aeruginosa
strain Kasamber 11); NLR-4 (Bacillus species ADMK68); ANT-6 (Bacillus subtilis
subsp. inaquosorum strain KCTC 13429)]. In addition to resistance to early stage 
pathogens, in both in vitro and pot experiments the PGPR consortium showed
significantly higher germination rate and root induction (Aspergillus niger; A.
flavus; Fusarium oxysporum) when compared to control and fertilizer treated
groups. In addition, Group 2 was more successful in stimulating and protecting
plant growth among the two groups of PGPRs developed. The PGPR consortia
developed showed multiple plant growth characteristics, including phosphate
solubilization, production of HCN and Indole acetic acid along with broad
antagonism against the tested phytopathogens.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126562 
PMID: 32739583 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest We declare that
there is no conflict of interest regarding the publication of this article.

