
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Oct 1;10(1):16241. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-73145-6.

Differential side-effects of Bacillus thuringiensis bioinsecticide on non-target 
Drosophila flies.

Babin A(1), Nawrot-Esposito MP(1), Gallet A(1), Gatti JL(2), Poirié M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Sophia Agrobiotech, Université Côte D'Azur, INRAE, CNRS, ISA, 400
route des chappes, 06903, Sophia Antipolis, France.
(2)Institut Sophia Agrobiotech, Université Côte D'Azur, INRAE, CNRS, ISA, 400
route des chappes, 06903, Sophia Antipolis, France. jean-luc.gatti@inrae.fr.

Bioinsecticides based on Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) spores and toxins are
increasingly popular alternative solutions to control insect pests, with
potential impact of their accumulation in the environment on non-target
organisms. Here, we tested the effects of chronic exposure to commercial Bt
formulations (Bt var. kurstaki and israelensis) on eight non-target Drosophila
species present in Bt-treated areas, including D. melanogaster (four strains).
Doses up to those recommended for field application (~ 106 Colony Forming Unit
(CFU)/g fly medium) did not impact fly development, while no fly emerged
at ≥ 1000-fold this dose. Doses between 10- to 100-fold the recommended one
increased developmental time and decreased adult emergence rates in a
dose-dependent manner, with species-and strain-specific effect amplitudes.
Focusing on D. melanogaster, development alterations were due to instar-dependent
larval mortality, and the longevity and offspring number of adult flies exposed
to bioinsecticide throughout their development were moderately influenced. Our
data also suggest a synergy between the formulation compounds (spores, cleaved
toxins, additives) might induce the bioinsecticide effects on larval development.
Although recommended doses had no impact on non-target Drosophila species, misuse
or local environmental accumulation of Bt bioinsecticides could have side-effects
on fly populations with potential implications for their associated communities.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-73145-6 
PMCID: PMC7529784
PMID: 33004867 

