
1. Biotechnol Prog. 2020 Aug 25:e3072. doi: 10.1002/btpr.3072. [Epub ahead of print]

CRISPR-Cas9 mediated engineering of Bacillus licheniformis for industrial
production of (2R,3S)-butanediol.

Song CW(1), Rathnasingh C(1), Park JM(1), Kwon M(1), Song H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research and Development Center, GS Caltex Corporation, Daejeon, Republic of
Korea.

Bacillus lichenformis is an industrially promising GRAS (generally recognized as 
safe) strain that can be used for the production of a valuable chemical,
2,3-butanediol (BDO). Conventional gene deletion vectors and/or methods are
time-consuming and have poor efficiency. Therefore, CRISPR-Cas9 mediated
homologous recombination was used to engineer a newly isolated and UV-mutagenized
Bacillus licheniformis 4,071-15 strain. With the help of a CRISPR-Cas9 system,
this one-step process could be used for the deletion of ldh gene within 4 days
with high efficiency exceeding 60%. In addition, the sequential deletion of
target genes for engineering studies was evaluated, and it was confirmed that a
triple mutant strain (ldh, dgp, and acoR) could be obtained by repeated one-step 
cycles. Furthermore, a practical metabolic engineering study was carried out
using a CRISPR-Cas9 system for the stereospecific production of (2R,3S)-BDO. The 
predicted (2R,3R)-butanediol dehydrogenase encoded by the gdh gene was selected
as a target for the production of (2R,3S)-BDO, and the mutant was successfully
obtained. The results show that the stereospecific production of (2R,3S)-BDO was 
possible with the gdh deletion mutant, while the 4,071-15 host strain still
generated 26% of (2R,3R)-BDO. It was also shown that the 4,071-15 Δgdh mutant
could produce 115 g/L of (2R,3S)-BDO in 64 h by two-stage fed-batch fermentation.
This study has shown the efficient development of a (2R,3S)-BDO producing B.
licheniformis strain based on CRISPR-Cas9 and fermentation technologies.

© 2020 American Institute of Chemical Engineers.

DOI: 10.1002/btpr.3072 
PMID: 32964665 

