
1. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2019 Dec;26(36):37054-37069. doi:
10.1007/s11356-019-06875-4. Epub 2019 Nov 19.

Biochemical activity of soil contaminated with BPS, bioaugmented with a mould
fungi consortium and a bacteria consortium.

Zaborowska M(1), Wyszkowska J(2), Kucharski J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn, Plac
Łódzki 3, 10 -727, Olsztyn, Poland.
(2)Department of Microbiology, University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn, Plac
Łódzki 3, 10 -727, Olsztyn, Poland. jadwiga.wyszkowska@uwm.edu.pl.

This study analysed the scale of bisphenol S (BPS) toxicity to the soil
biochemical activity and is part of a wider effort to find solutions to restore
the global soil environment balance, including elimination of the effects of
ecosystem pollution with BPA, of which BPS is a significant analogue. However,
since there has been no research on the effect of BPS on soil health, the
objective of the study was pursued based on increasing the levels of soil
contamination with the bisphenol 0, 5, 50 and 500 mg BPS kg-1 DM of soil and by
observing the response of seven soil enzymes: dehydrogenases, catalase, urease,
acid phosphatase, alkaline phosphatase, arylsulphatase and β-glucosidase to the
growing BPS pressure. The potential negative effect of bisphenol S was offset by 
bioaugmentation with a bacteria consortium-Pseudomonas umsongensis, Bacillus
mycoides, Bacillus weihenstephanensis and Bacillus subtilis-and a fungi
consortium Mucor circinelloides, Penicillium daleae, Penicillium chrysogenum and 
Aspergillus niger. BPS was found to be a significant inhibitor of the soil
enzymatic activity and, in consequence, its fertility. Dehydrogenases and acid
phosphatase proved to be the most susceptible to BPS pressure. Bioaugmentation
with a bacteria consortium offset the negative effect of 500 mg BPS kg-1 DM of
soil by inducing an increase in the activity of acid phosphatase and alkaline
phosphatase, whereas the fungi consortium stimulated the activity of
β-glucosidase and acid phosphatase. A spectacular dimension of bisphenol S
inhibition corresponded with both the spring rape above-ground parts and root
development disorders and the content of Ca and K in them. The BPS level in soil 
on day 5 of the experiment decreased by 61% and by another 19% on day 60.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-019-06875-4 
PMID: 31745783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

