
1. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2020 Jul;102:133-139. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.04.023.
Epub 2020 Apr 17.

Bacillus baekryungensis MS1 regulates the growth, non-specific immune parameters 
and gut microbiota of the sea cucumber Apostichopus japonicus.

Liu B(1), Zhou W(1), Wang H(1), Li C(1), Wang L(1), Li Y(2), Wang J(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Engineering, Dalian Polytechnic University, Dalian,
116034, China.
(2)School of Food Science and Engineering, Dalian Ocean University, Dalian,
116023, China.
(3)Engineering Research Center of Health Food Design & Nutrition Regulation,
School of Chemical Engineering and Energy Technology, Dongguan University of
Technology, Dongguan, 523808, China. Electronic address: wangjh_dlpu@163.com.

Winter is a high incidence period of skin ulceration syndrome in the sea cucumber
Apostichopus japonicus. Disease control during the overwintering of sea cucumber 
can help increase yield and reduce losses. The purpose of this study was to study
the effect of the low temperature-resistant probiotic Bacillus baekryungensis MS1
on the growth and immune parameters of sea cucumbers and preliminarily
investigate the molecular mechanism of the effects. A low temperature-resistant
bacterium, B. baekryungensis MS1, was isolated from a sea cucumber pond in winter
and used for culture experiments. After 10 days of prefeeding, the experiment was
divided into the control group (fed with commercial diet) and the MS1 group (fed 
with diet containing B. baekryungensis MS1 at 107 cfu g-1) for a total of 60
days. The specific growth rate was measured at the end of the culture period to
evaluate the growth performance of the sea cucumber. Samples were taken on days
30 and 60 to determine the immune parameters (including superoxide dismutase
activity, catalase activity, alkaline phosphatase activity, acid phosphatase
activity, nitric oxide synthetase activity, phagocytosis and respiratory burst), 
aquaculture water microbiota and gut microbiota of the sea cucumber. Finally,
transcriptome sequencing and qRT-PCR verification of the two groups of sea
cucumbers were performed to study the mechanism of B. baekryungensis MS1 to
improve the immunity of the sea cucumber. The results showed that after 60 days
of feeding, B. baekryungensis MS1 significantly improved the growth performance
and immune enzyme activity and formed a healthier structure of the gut microbiota
in the sea cucumber. The challenge test showed that B. baekryungensis MS1
significantly reduced the mortality of sea cucumbers infected with Vibrio
splendidus. Transcriptome and gene expression analysis indicated that B.
baekryungensis MS1 activated the ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis pathway and
inhibited the mTOR signaling pathway to regulate the immunity of the sea
cucumber. In summary, the low temperature-resistant bacterium B. baekryungensis
MS1 could be applied for the aquiculture of sea cucumber in winter to improve
health status and resist pathogenic bacteria such as V. splendidus.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.04.023 
PMID: 32305504 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no conflict of interest.

