
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Aug 25;11:2051. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.02051. eCollection 
2020.

Screening the Olive Tree Phyllosphere: Search and Find Potential Antagonists
Against Pseudomonas savastanoi pv. savastanoi.

Mina D(1), Pereira JA(1), Lino-Neto T(2), Baptista P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigação de Montanha (CIMO), Instituto Politécnico de Bragança, 
Bragança, Portugal.
(2)BioSystems & Integrative Sciences Institute (BioISI), Plant Functional Biology
Centre, University of Minho, Braga, Portugal.

Olive knot (OK) is a widespread bacterial disease, caused by Pseudomonas
savastanoi pv. savastanoi (Pss), which currently has not effective control
methods. The use of naturally occurring microbial antagonists, such as bacteria, 
as biocontrol agents could be a strategy to manage this disease. The objective of
this work was to select bacteria from olive tree phyllosphere able to antagonize 
Pss using in vitro and in planta experiments. The elucidation of their modes of
action and the potential relationship between antagonism and bacteria origin has 
been investigated, as well. To this end, 60 bacterial isolates obtained from the 
surface and inner tissues of different organs (leaves, twigs, and knots), from
two olive cultivars of varying susceptibilities to OK, were screened for their in
vitro antagonistic effect against Pss. A total of 27 bacterial strains were able 
to significantly inhibit Pss growth, being this effect linked to bacteria origin.
Strains from OK-susceptible cultivar and colonizing the surface of plant tissues 
showed the strongest antagonistic potential. The antagonistic activity was
potentially due to the production of volatile compounds, siderophores and lytic
enzymes. Bacillus amyloliquefaciens P41 was the most effective antagonistic
strain and their capacity to control OK disease was subsequently assayed using in
planta experiments. This strain significantly reduces OK disease severity
(43.7%), knots weight (55.4%) and population size of Pss (26.8%), while
increasing the shoot dry weight (55.0%) and root water content (39.6%) of
Pss-infected olive plantlets. Bacterial isolates characterized in this study, in 
particular B. amyloliquefaciens P41, may be considered as promising biocontrol
candidates for controlling OK disease.

Copyright © 2020 Mina, Pereira, Lino-Neto and Baptista.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.02051 
PMCID: PMC7477298
PMID: 32983037 

