
1. Microb Biotechnol. 2020 Sep 30. doi: 10.1111/1751-7915.13658. [Epub ahead of
print]

The unconventional adverse effects of fungal pretreatment on iturin A
fermentation by Bacillus amyloliquefaciens CX-20.

Chen W(1)(2)(3)(4), Wang M(1), Gong Y(1)(2)(3)(4), Deng Q(1)(2)(3)(4), Zheng
M(1)(2)(3)(4), Chen S(5), Wan X(1)(2)(3)(4), Yang C(1)(2)(3)(4), Huang
F(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Oil Crops Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Wuhan,
430062, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Biology and Genetic Improvement of Oil Crops, Ministry of
Agriculture, Wuhan, 430062, China.
(3)Oil Crops and Lipids Process Technology National & Local Joint Engineering
Laboratory, Wuhan, 430062, China.
(4)Hubei Key Laboratory of Lipid Chemistry and Nutrition, Wuhan, 430062, China.
(5)Hubei Collaborative Innovation Center for Green Transformation of
Bio-Resources, Environmental Microbial Technology Center of Hubei Province,
College of Life Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan, 430062, China.

Fungal pretreatment is the most common strategy for improving the conversion of
rapeseed meal (RSM) into value-added microbial products. It was demonstrated that
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens CX-20 could directly use RSM as the sole source of all
nutrients except the carbon source for iturin A fermentation with high
productivity. However, whether fungal pretreatment has an impact on iturin A
production is still unknown. In this study, the effects of fungal pretreatment
and direct bio-utilization of RSM for iturin A fermentation were comparatively
analysed through screening suitable fungal species, and evaluating the
relationships between iturin A production and the composition of solid fermented 
RSM and liquid hydrolysates. Three main unconventional adverse effects were
identified. (1) Solid-state fermentation by fungi resulted in a decrease of the
total nitrogen for B. amyloliquefaciens CX-20 growth and metabolism, which caused
nitrogen waste from RSM. (2) The released free ammonium nitrogen in liquid
hydrolysates by fungal pretreatment led to the reduction of iturin A. (3) The
insoluble precipitates of hydrolysates, which were mostly ignored and wasted in
previous studies, were found to have beneficial effects on producing iturin A. In
conclusion, our study verifies the unconventional adverse effects of fungal
pretreatment on iturin A production by B. amyloliquefaciens CX-20 compared with
direct bio-utilization of RSM.

Â© 2020 The Authors. Microbial Biotechnology published by Society for Applied
Microbiology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-7915.13658 
PMID: 32997385 

