
1. Anal Biochem. 2020 Sep 20;612:113975. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2020.113975. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Optical characterization and tunable antibacterial properties of gold
nanoparticles with common proteins.

Simon J(1), Udayan S(2), Bindiya ES(3), Bhat SG(3), Nampoori VPN(2), Kailasnath
M(2).

Author information: 
(1)International School of Photonics, Cochin University of Science and
Technology, Cochin, India. Electronic address: jessypps@cusat.ac.in.
(2)International School of Photonics, Cochin University of Science and
Technology, Cochin, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Cochin University of Science and Technology,
Cochin, India.

The interaction of three proteins, viz. Bovine Serum Albumin (BSA), Human Serum
Albumin (HSA) and Hen Egg White Lysozyme (HEWL) with gold nanoparticles (GNPs) is
investigated using surface plasmon resonance (SPR) spectroscopy, fluorescence
spectroscopy and circular dichroism (CD). Size and morphology of the samples was 
established using Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) and stability studies
was established using zeta potential analysis. The stability of protein-GNP
complex was found to be greater than that of individual protein as well as
individual GNPs. Also HEWL-GNP complex was more stable compared to the other
protein complexes. Absorbance of proteins increases with increase in gold
nanoparticle concentration due to the extension of peptide strands of protein and
decrease in hydrophobicity of gold nanoparticles. A ground state complex is also 
formed which is evident from the moderate shift observed in the absorbance peaks.
Apparent association constant was also determined from the absorption spectra and
was found to be maximum for HEWL and minimum for HSA. Gold nanoparticles were
found to act as quenchers and reduced the protein fluorescence intensity. Binding
constant and number of binding sites were found to be maximum for HEWL and
minimum for HSA. The temperature dependent fluorescence studies were also
performed to calculate the thermodynamic parameters and to determine the nature
of interaction between the proteins and gold nanoparticles. The circular
dichroism studies elucidate the reason behind the maximum binding for HEWL and
minimum binding for HSA. TGA analysis determined the thermal stability of the
samples. Fluorescence lifetime studies indicate static quenching of proteins.
Antibacterial activity of protein-gold nanoparticles was studied against four
pathogens, viz. Bacillus pumilus, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and
Staphylococcus aureus. HEWL exhibits a tunable antimicrobial activity against
Pseudomonas aeruginosa due to the maximum binding of HEWL with gold
nanoparticles. The study proposes a novel method for adjusting the antibacterial 
activity of HEWL against Pseudomonas aeruginosa when the resistance of this
pathogen is a major issue in the chemotherapy of many infectious diseases. Thus
the combination therapy of protein-gold nanoparticles could prove to be a new
approach in medical field in the near future.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2020.113975 
PMID: 32966803 

