
1. Antioxidants (Basel). 2020 Sep 29;9(10). pii: E934. doi: 10.3390/antiox9100934.

Reduction of Oxidative Stress through Activating the Nrf2 mediated HO-1
Antioxidant Efficacy Signaling Pathway by MS15, an Antimicrobial Peptide from
Bacillus velezensis.

Khan MM(1), Kim YK(1), Bilkis T(2), Suh JW(3), Lee DY(4), Yoo JC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Chosun University, Gwangju
501-759, Korea.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Chosun University, Gwangju 501-759, Korea.
(3)Center for Nutraceutical and Pharmaceutical Materials, Myongji University,
Myongji-ro 116, Cheoin-gu, Yongin 17058, Gyeonggi-Do, Korea.
(4)Department of Herbal Crop Research, National Institute of Horticultural and
Herbal Science, RDA, Eumseong 27709, Korea.

The efficient culture and purification of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), along
with intense antioxidant activity, have drawn the interest to study antioxidant
activity mechanism. We report the culture conditions optimization, efficient
biosynthesis, and purification of an antioxidant peptide MS15 from Bacillus
velezensis obtained from fermented food that would generate heme oxygenase-1
(HO-1) expression and lead to nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) 
nuclear translocation. We explored the ability of kinetics and potency for the
bacterial killing to work against various pathogenic bacteria. A bioassay showed 
the lysis zone of MS15 by tricine SDS-PAGE near at 6 kDa. MALDI-TOF/MS verified
molecular weight, and the existence of a molecular mass of 6091 Da was reported
by purity. The MIC of MS15 ranged from 2.5-160 Î¼g/mL for many pathogenic
bacteria, showing greater potency. In macrophage RAW 264.7 cells, MS15 was
exposed to assess its inhibitory effect against the generation of reactive oxygen
species (ROS) in oxidative stress. In the sample treated group, the translation, 
and transcriptional levels of CAT (catalase), GPx (glutathione peroxidase), and
SOD (superoxide dismutase) were significantly greater. In short, MS15 has
significant antioxidant properties, reducing ROS production in RAW 264.7 cells,
and raising the translation and transcriptional rates of antioxidant enzymes with
stimulating HO-1 induction facilitated by Nrf2.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox9100934 
PMID: 33003432 

