
1. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Jan 28;30(1):146-154. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1907.07015.

Improving Catalytic Efficiency and Changing Substrate Spectrum for Asymmetric
Biocatalytic Reductive Amination.

Jiang W(1), Wang Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering and Biotechnology, College of Chemical
Engineering, Huaqiao University, Xiamen, Fujian, 361021, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.

With the advantages of biocatalytic method, enzymes have been excavated for the
synthesis of chiral amino acids by the reductive amination of ketones, offering a
promising way of producing pharmaceutical intermediates. In this work, a robust
phenylalanine dehydrogenase (PheDH) with wide substrate spectrum and high
catalytic efficiency was constructed through rational design and
active-site-targeted, site-specific mutagenesis by using the parent enzyme from
Bacillus halodurans. Active sites with bonding substrate and amino acid residues 
surrounding the substrate binding pocket, 49L-50G-51G, 74M,77K,
122G-123T-124D-125M, 275N, 305L and 308V of the PheDH, were identified.
Noticeably, the new mutant PheDH (E113D-N276L) showed approximately 6.06-fold
increment of kcat/Km in the oxidative deamination and more than 1.58-fold in the 
reductive amination compared to that of the wide type. Meanwhile, the PheDHs
exhibit high capacity of accepting benzylic and aliphatic ketone substrates. The 
broad specificity, high catalytic efficiency and selectivity, along with
excellent thermal stability, render these broad-spectrum enzymes ideal targets
for further development with potential diagnostic reagent and pharmaceutical
compounds applications.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1907.07015 
PMID: 31546300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

