
1. Microb Biotechnol. 2020 Sep 20. doi: 10.1111/1751-7915.13659. [Epub ahead of
print]

Membrane disruption of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. niveum induced by myriocin from 
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens LZN01.

Wang H(1)(2)(3), Wang Z(1)(2)(3), Liu Z(1)(3), Wang K(1)(3), Xu W(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Science and Agroforestry, Qiqihar University, Qiqihar, 161006,
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Urban Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Affairs, Shanghai, 200240, China.
(3)Heilongjiang Provincial Technology Innovation Center of Agromicrobial
Preparation Industrialization, Qiqihar, 161006, China.

Myriocin, which is produced by Bacillus amyloliquefaciens LZN01, can inhibit the 
growth of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. niveum (Fon). In the present study, the
antifungal mechanism of myriocin against Fon was investigated with a focus on the
effects of myriocin on the cell membrane. Myriocin decreased the membrane
fluidity and destroyed the membrane integrity of Fon. Significant microscopic
morphological changes, including conidial shrinkage, the appearance of larger
vacuoles and inhomogeneity of electron density, were observed in myriocin-treated
cells. A membrane-targeted mechanism of action was also supported by
transcriptomic and proteomic analyses; a total of 560 common differentially
expressed genes (DEGs) and 285 common differentially expressed proteins (DEPs)
were identified. The DEGs were further verified by using RT-qPCR. The combined
analysis between the transcriptome and proteome revealed that the expression of
some membrane-related genes and proteins, mainly those related to sphingolipid
metabolism, glycerophospholipid metabolism, steroid biosynthesis, ABC
transporters and protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum, was disordered.
Myriocin affected the serine palmitoyl transferase (SPT) activity as evidenced
through molecular docking. Our results indicate that myriocin has significant
antifungal activity owing to its ability to induce membrane damage in Fon.

Â© 2020 The Authors. Microbial Biotechnology published by Society for Applied
Microbiology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-7915.13659 
PMID: 32954686 

