
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 May;77(5):786-794. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-01874-y. Epub
2020 Jan 10.

Optimizing the Reduction of Molybdate by Two Novel Thermophilic Bacilli Isolated 
from Sinai, Egypt.

Saeed AM(1), Sayed HAE(2), El-Shatoury EH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Ain Shams University, Cairo,
11566, Egypt. ali.saeed@sci.asu.edu.eg.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Ain Shams University, Cairo,
11566, Egypt.

The aim of this study was to isolate thermophilic bacteria to be used in in situ 
bioremediation of molybdate at elevated temperatures. Two molybdate reducing
bacteria (Pharon2 and Pharon3) were isolated from the hot Spring at Pharaoh's
Bath, Sinai, Egypt. The isolates were identified by 16S rRNA genes sequencing and
were submitted to GenBank as Bacillus tequilensis strain Pharon2 (MK078034) and
Bacillus sonorensis strain Pharon3 (MK078035). The molybdenum blue production was
optimized using multifactorial statistical approaches, Plackett-Burman and
central composite designs. According to the results obtained by response
optimizer, the maximum molybdenum blue production achieved was 1.04 and 1.12
represented as absorbance at 865 nm, with the optimum salt concentration of 1.1
and 2.5%; at pH 7.02 and 7.07; incubation temperature of 46.1 and 52.2 °C;
sucrose and glucose as an electron donor for Bacillus tequilensis strain Pharon2 
and Bacillus sonorensis strain Pharon3, respectively. In conclusion, the
thermophilic bacterial isolates belonging to the genus Bacillus could be used in 
in situ bioremediation under elevated temperatures. To the best of our knowledge,
this is the first record of molybdenum blue production by thermophilic Bacillus
tequilensis and Bacillus sonorensis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-01874-y 
PMID: 31925514 

