
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 Mar 2;86(6). pii: e02061-19. doi:
10.1128/AEM.02061-19. Print 2020 Mar 2.

Suboptimal Bacillus licheniformis and Bacillus weihenstephanensis Spore
Incubation Conditions Increase Heterogeneity of Spore Outgrowth Time.

Trunet C(1)(2), Mtimet N(3), Mathot AG(3), Postollec F(2), Leguerinel I(3),
Couvert O(3), Broussolle V(4), Carlin F(4), Coroller L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Univ Brest, Laboratoire Universitaire de Biodiversité et Ecologie Microbienne,
UMT ACTIA 19.03 ALTER'iX, Quimper, France clement.trunet@univ-brest.fr.
(2)ADRIA Food Expertise, UMT ACTIA 19.03 ALTER'iX, Quimper, France.
(3)Univ Brest, Laboratoire Universitaire de Biodiversité et Ecologie Microbienne,
UMT ACTIA 19.03 ALTER'iX, Quimper, France.
(4)INRAE, Avignon Université, UMR SQPOV, Avignon, France.

Changes with time of a population of Bacillus weihenstephanensis KBAB4 and
Bacillus licheniformis AD978 dormant spores into germinated spores and vegetative
cells were followed by flow cytometry, at pH ranges of 4.7 to 7.4 and
temperatures of 10°C to 37°C for B. weihenstephanensis and 18°C to 59°C for B.
licheniformis Incubation conditions lower than optimal temperatures or pH led to 
lower proportions of dormant spores able to germinate and extended time of
germination, a lower proportion of germinated spores able to outgrow, an
extension of their times of outgrowth, and an increase of the heterogeneity of
spore outgrowth time. A model based on the strain growth limits was proposed to
quantify the impact of incubation temperature and pH on the passage through each 
physiological stage. The heat treatment temperature or time acted independently
on spore recovery. Indeed, a treatment at 85°C for 12 min or at 95°C for 2 min
did not have the same impact on spore germination and outgrowth kinetics of B.
weihenstephanensis despite the fact that they both led to a 10-fold reduction of 
the population. Moreover, acidic sporulation pH increased the time of outgrowth
1.2-fold and lowered the proportion of spores able to germinate and outgrow
1.4-fold. Interestingly, we showed by proteomic analysis that some proteins
involved in germination and outgrowth were detected at a lower abundance in
spores produced at pH 5.5 than in those produced at pH 7.0, maybe at the origin
of germination and outgrowth behavior of spores produced at suboptimal
pH.IMPORTANCE Sporulation and incubation conditions have an impact on the numbers
of spores able to recover after exposure to sublethal heat treatment. Using flow 
cytometry, we were able to follow at a single-cell level the changes in the
physiological states of heat-stressed spores of Bacillus spp. and to discriminate
between dormant spores, germinated spores, and outgrowing vegetative cells. We
developed original mathematical models that describe (i) the changes with time of
the proportion of cells in their different states during germination and
outgrowth and (ii) the influence of temperature and pH on the kinetics of spore
recovery using the growth limits of the tested strains as model parameters. We
think that these models better predict spore recovery after a sublethal heat
treatment, a common situation in food processing and a concern for food
preservation and safety.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02061-19 
PMCID: PMC7054099
PMID: 31900309 

