
1. Plants (Basel). 2020 May 6;9(5). pii: E592. doi: 10.3390/plants9050592.

From Genome to Field-Observation of the Multimodal Nematicidal and Plant
Growth-Promoting Effects of Bacillus firmus I-1582 on Tomatoes Using
Hyperspectral Remote Sensing.

Susič N(1), Žibrat U(1), Sinkovič L(2), Vončina A(1), Razinger J(1), Knapič M(1),
Sedlar A(2), Širca S(1), Gerič Stare B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Plant Protection Department, Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, SI-1000
Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(2)Crop Science Department, Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, SI-1000
Ljubljana, Slovenia.

Root-knot nematodes are considered the most important group of plant-parasitic
nematodes due to their wide range of plant hosts and subsequent role in yield
losses in agricultural production systems. Chemical nematicides are the primary
control method, but ecotoxicity issues with some compounds has led to their
phasing-out and consequential development of new control strategies, including
biological control. We evaluated the nematicidal activity of Bacillus firmus
I-1582 in pot and microplot experiments against Meloidogyne luci. I-1582 reduced 
nematode counts by 51% and 53% compared to the untreated control in pot and
microplot experiments, respectively. I-1582 presence in the rhizosphere had
concurrent nematicidal and plant growth-promoting effects, measured using plant
morphology, relative chlorophyll content, elemental composition and hyperspectral
imaging. Hyperspectral imaging in the 400-2500 nm spectral range and supervised
classification using partial least squares support vector machines successfully
differentiated B. firmus-treated and untreated plants, with 97.4% and 96.3%
accuracy in pot and microplot experiments, respectively. Visible and shortwave
infrared spectral regions associated with chlorophyll, N-H and C-N stretches in
proteins were most relevant for treatment discrimination. This study shows the
ability of hyperspectral imaging to rapidly assess the success of biological
measures for pest control.

DOI: 10.3390/plants9050592 
PMCID: PMC7285481
PMID: 32384661 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

