
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Apr 23;11:751. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00751. eCollection
2020.

Assessment of a Potential Role of Dickeya dadantii DSM 18020 as a Pectinase
Producer for Utilization in Poultry Diets Based on in silico Analyses.

Dittoe DK(1), Barabote RD(2), Rothrock MJ(3), Ricke SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Center for Food Safety, University of Arkansas,
Fayetteville, AR, United States.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR,
United States.
(3)Egg Safety and Quality Research Unit, U.S. National Poultry Research Center,
United States Department of Agriculture-Agricultural Research Service (USDA-ARS),
Athens, GA, United States.

Currently, the poultry industry has been faced with consumer pressure to utilize 
only vegetable feedstuffs in poultry diets, eliminate antibiotics from poultry
production, and rear poultry in free range systems. To maintain current
production standards, the industry must determine ways to enhance nutrient uptake
and utilization further. One possible solution is the supplementation of
pectinase, an enzyme that degrades pectin within the cell walls of plants, in
poultry diets. Therefore, the objective of the current study was to determine the
potential role of a pectinase producer, Dickeya dadantii DSM 18020, as a
commercially utilized pectinase producer in poultry diets against other known
pectinase producers, in silico. In the current study, whole genomes of Dickeya
dadantii DSM 18020 (Dd18020), D. dadantii 3937 (Dd3937), D. solani IPO 2222
(Ds2222), Bacillus halodurans C-125 (BhC125), and B. subtilis subsp. subtilis
str. 168 (Bs168) were compared using bioinformatic approaches to compare the
chromosomal genome size, GC content, protein coding genes (CDS), total genes,
average protein length (a.a.) and determine the predicted metabolic pathways,
predicted pectin degrading enzymes, and pectin-degradation pathways across
pectinase producers. Due to insufficient information surrounding the genome of
Dd18020 (lack of annotation), the genome of Dd3937, a 99% identical genome to
Dd18020, was utilized to compare pectinase-associated enzymes and pathways. The
results from the current study demonstrated that Dd3937 possessed the most
significant proportion of pathways presented and the highest number of pathways
related to degradation, assimilation, and utilization of pectin. Also, Dd18020
exhibited a high number of pectinase-related enzymes. Both Dd3937 and Dd2222
shared the pectin degradation I pathway via the EC 3.1.1.11, EC 3.2.1.82, and EC 
4.2.2.- enzymes, but did not share this pathway with either Bacillus species. In 
conclusion, Dd18020 demonstrated the genetic potential to produce multiple
pectinase enzymes that could be beneficial to the degradation of pectin in
poultry diets. However, for Dd18020 to become a commercially viable enzyme
producer for the poultry industry, further research quantifying the pectinase
production in vitro and determining the stability of the produced pectinases
during feed manufacturing are necessary.

Copyright Â© 2020 Dittoe, Barabote, Rothrock and Ricke.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00751 
PMCID: PMC7191031
PMID: 32390987 

