
1. J Environ Manage. 2019 Nov 15;250:109455. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2019.109455.
Epub 2019 Sep 3.

Identification and overcome of limitations of weathered oil hydrocarbons
bioremediation by an adapted Bacillus sorensis strain.

Oualha M(1), Al-Kaabi N(1), Al-Ghouti M(1), Zouari N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, College of Arts and
Sciences, Qatar University, PoB 2713, Doha, Qatar.
(2)Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, College of Arts and
Sciences, Qatar University, PoB 2713, Doha, Qatar. Electronic address:
Nabil.Zouari@qu.edu.qa.

Because of the high production of oil and gas in Qatar, the likelihood of oil
spill occurrence is most probably susceptible to happen. Contaminated soil
treatment is very expensive. Cost effective mechanisms are investigated to treat 
this threatening issue. For that reason, bioremediation and biotechnology tools
are introduced to help accelerate and remove the pollution caused by the
contamination process. This paper demonstrated the importance of optimising the
treatment conditions to the indigenous bacterial strain to obtain the highest
biodegradation efficiency rates. The usage of biopile system technology was used 
with biostimulation and bioaugmentation processes. The indigenous Bacillus
sonorensis (B. sonorensis) D1 bacterium played a crucial role in the
biodegradation process when introduced to optimized conditions;
carbon/nitrogen/phosphorus (C/N/P) (100/10/1), temperature (37 °C), surfactant
tween 80 (0.12% (v/w)), and moisture (10%). Gas chromatography (mass
spectrometry/flame ionization detector) (GC- (MS/FID)), Fourier transform
infrared (FTIR), and colony-forming unit (CFU) analyses were performed. The
diesel range organics (DRO) and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) removal
(%) of the weathered oil contaminated soil reached, after 160 days, 39.2% and
32.4% simultaneously when ammonium nitrate was used as a nitrogen source. Whereas
urea inhibited the oil degradation process and caused the pH to rise to 9.55.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2019.109455 
PMID: 31491718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

