
1. Anal Biochem. 2020 Feb 15;591:113554. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2019.113554. Epub 2019
Dec 18.

"Recombinant cold -adapted halotolerant, organic solvent-stable esterase (estHIJ)
from Bacillus halodurans.

Noby N(1), Hussein A(1), Saeed H(1), Embaby AM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Graduate Studies and Research,
Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Graduate Studies and Research,
Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt. Electronic address:
amira.embaby@alexu.edu.eg.

Esterases and lipases enduring harsh conditions, including low temperature and
extreme tolerance to organic solvents, have attracted great attention in recent
times. In the current study, a full open reading frame of 747 bp that encodes a
novel, cold-adapted esterase (estHIJ) of 248 amino acids from Bacillus halodurans
strain NAH-Egypt was heterologously cloned and expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3)
Rosetta. Amino acid sequence analysis revealed that estHIJ belongs to family XIII
of lipolytic enzymes, with a characteristic pentapeptide motif (G-L-S-L-G). The
recombinant estHIJ was purified using Ni-affinity chromatography to homogeneity
with purification fold, yield, specific activity, and molecular weight (MW) of
3.5, 47.5%, 19.8 U/mg and 29 kDa, respectively. The enzyme showed preferential
substrate specificity towards pNP-acetate (C2), with catalytic efficiency of
46,825 min-1 mM-1 estHIJ displayed optimal activity at 30 °C and pH (7.0-8.0).
estHIJ demonstrated robust stability in the presence of 50% (v/v) non-polar
solvents and 4 M NaCl after 15 h and 6 h of incubation, respectively. The
promising features of the recombinant estHIJ underpin its potential in several
fields, e.g., the synthesis of pharmaceutical compounds and the food industry.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2019.113554 
PMID: 31863727 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.

