
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Jan;77(1):40-48. doi: 10.1007/s00284-019-01779-5. Epub 2019 
Oct 28.

Chitooligosaccharides and Thermostable Chitinase Against Vulvovaginal Candidiasis
and Saprophyte Fungi: LC Mass Studies of Shrimp Shell Fermentation by Bacillus
altitudinis.

Abassi S(1), Emtiazi G(2), Hosseini-Abari A(1), Kim BG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Isfahan, Isfahan,
Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Isfahan, Isfahan,
Iran. emtiazi@sci.ui.ac.ir.
(3)School of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Seoul National University,
Gwank-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

Some patients with candidiasis seek alternatives drug to treat vaginal yeast
infection like herbal preparations and probiotics. However, the effectiveness of 
such treatments has not received much study. In this research, the unique
chitinotrophic Bacillus was isolated on shrimp shell from salt lakes and
identified as Bacillus altitudinis by 16SRNA sequencing. This strain produced a
novel chitin-oligosaccharide material and thermostable chitinase (5.1 units/ml)
during 4 days incubation on shrimp shell medium; nevertheless, its growth on
nutrient agar was negative. The zymogram showed less than 50 kD protein
responsible for chitinase activities. The LC/MS detection of concentrate
fermented products showed the production of oligosaccharide during chitin
fermentation. As results of shrimp shell degradation, 65.6 mg/l protein,
73.4 mg/l N-acetyl glucose amine, and oligosaccharide were produced. Synergism
activities of chitooligosaccharide and chitinase from this strain against fungi
and pathogen candida (staining with methylene blue showed that almost 50% of 106 
cells were died during 6 h) are promising for new anti-fungal drug with no side
effect.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-019-01779-5 
PMID: 31659402  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

