
1. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2020;92(2):e20181103. doi: 10.1590/0001-3765202020181103.
Epub 2020 Aug 12.

Determination of antimicrobial and antioxidant potential of agro-waste peels.

Naqvi SAZ(1), Irfan A(1), Zahoor AF(2), Zafar M(3), Maria A(1), Chand AJ(1),
Ashfaq S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Lahore, Sargodha, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Government College University Faisalabad, Faisalabad,
Pakistan.
(3)Department of Plants Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan.

Natural products from plants are pulling in more interest in exploration due to
their therapeutic properties like, mainly because of the drug-resistance in
microbes against synthetic drugs. Thus, the present study was designed to assess 
the antimicrobial and antioxidant actions of some Agro-waste (garlic, ginger,
onion, potato) peel extracts. Ginger peel extracts exhibited the highest FRAP
(0.273±0.044 mm Fe2+ Eq/g dry weight) while garlic peel extracts exhibited the
highest TAC (0.47±0.0452 mm AAE/g dry weight) values among all selections. The
antimicrobial activity of the peels was evaluated against different pathogenic
bacterial and fungal strains i.e.; Escherichia coli, Bacillus megaterium,
Bacillus cereus, Staphylococcus aureus, Colletotrichum falcatum, Fusarium
moniliforme, and Rhizoctonia solani. Among all extracts, ginger peel extracts
exhibited maximum inhibition against all bacterial strains, while onion peel
extracts exhibited zero inhibition against any bacterial strains. All extracts
exhibited maximum inhibition against Staphylococcus aureus except onion peel
extracts. Positive inhibition against all fungal strains was observed for all
samples, with maximum inhibition against Colletotrichum falcatum. The outcomes of
the study, therefore reveal that Agro-wastes have a powerful antimicrobial and
antioxidant potency and thus can be used for many medicinal purposes, which will 
likewise be helpful in waste management and environmental safety.

DOI: 10.1590/0001-3765202020181103 
PMID: 32813867 

