
1. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2019 Nov;42(11):1819-1828. doi:
10.1007/s00449-019-02178-7. Epub 2019 Aug 21.

Bioleaching of silicon in electrolytic manganese residue using single and mixed
silicate bacteria.

Lv Y(1), Li J(2)(3), Ye H(1)(4), Du D(1)(4), Gan C(1), Wuri L(1), Sun P(1), Wen
J(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Chemical Engineering, South-Central University for Nationalities,
Wuhan, 430074, People's Republic of China.
(2)College of Chemical Engineering, South-Central University for Nationalities,
Wuhan, 430074, People's Republic of China. jiajiali1982@aliyun.com.
(3)Hubei Province Engineering Research Center for Control and Treatment of Heavy 
Metal Pollution, Wuhan, 430074, People's Republic of China.
jiajiali1982@aliyun.com.
(4)Hubei Province Engineering Research Center for Control and Treatment of Heavy 
Metal Pollution, Wuhan, 430074, People's Republic of China.

Electrolytic manganese residue (EMR) is a type of industrial solid waste with a
high silicon content. The silicon in EMR can be used as an essential nutrient for
plant growth, but most of the silicon is found in silicate minerals with very low
water solubility, that is, it is inactive silicon and cannot be absorbed and used
by plants directly. Thus, developing a highly effective and environmentally
friendly process for the activation of silicon in EMR is important both for
reusing solid waste and environmental sustainability. The aim of this study was
to investigate the desilication of EMR using cultures of Paenibacillus
mucilaginosus (PM) and Bacillus circulans (BC). The results showed that the two
types of silicate bacteria and a mixed strain of them were all able to extract
silicon from EMR with a high efficiency, but the desilication performance of the 
mixed PM and BC was the best. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy indicated
that silicate bacteria can induce a suitable micro-environment near the EMR
particles and release Si into the solution through their metabolism. X-ray
diffraction analysis confirmed that layered crystal minerals, such as muscovite
and diopside, were more likely to be destroyed by the bacterial action than
quartz, which has a frame structure. Scanning electron microscopy-energy
dispersive spectrometry proved that the silicate structures were destroyed and
that Si in the residue was decreased, indicating the dissolution of silicon under
the action of these microorganisms. This study suggests that bioleaching may be a
promising method for the activation of silicon in EMR.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-019-02178-7 
PMID: 31435737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

