
1. Phytochemistry. 2020 Sep 10;179:112506. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2020.112506.
[Epub ahead of print]

Biochemical and molecular insights of PGPR application for the augmentation of
carotenoids, tocopherols, and folate in the foliage of Moringa oleifera.

Sonbarse PP(1), Kiran K(1), Sharma P(2), Parvatam G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research, Ghaziabad, India; Plant Cell
Biotechnology Department, CSIR- Central Food Technological Research Institute,
Mysore, 570020, India.
(2)Plant Cell Biotechnology Department, CSIR- Central Food Technological Research
Institute, Mysore, 570020, India.
(3)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research, Ghaziabad, India; Plant Cell
Biotechnology Department, CSIR- Central Food Technological Research Institute,
Mysore, 570020, India. Electronic address: giridharp@cftri.res.in.

Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria (PGPR) were utilized to contemplate their
impact on the foliage of Moringa oleifera and examined for changes in
tocopherols, chlorophyll, carotenoids, and folate in the sixth week. Among the
eight treatments, Bacillus subtilis GB03, B. pumilus SE34, B. pumilus T4, and
Pseudomonas fluorescens UOM14 improved α-tocopherol (10-14 fold) and β-carotene
(1-1.40 fold) altogether significantly (P ≤ 0.05). The most significant
improvement in folate content was apparent for B. subtilis IN937B (5.47 fold)
trailed by B. pumilus SE34 (5.05 fold) and B. pumilus T4 (5.12 fold) treatments. 
P. fluorescens UOM14 indicated remarkable improvement in Chl a (0.39 fold) and
Chl b (0.44 fold) content. Organisms showing a significant increase for the
analyzed molecules in individual treatment were blended in different combinations
and were used for the next set of treatments. Of all the three combinations,
Combination 2 (COM2-B. pumilus SE34 + B. pumilus T4 + B. pumilus INR7) showed the
maximum increase in α-tocopherol (8.46 fold) and γ-tocopherol (8.45 fold),
followed by Combination 3 (COM3-B. pumilus SE34 + B. pumilus T4 + P. fluorescens 
UOM14) (5.93 and 3.65 fold). On the whole COM2 containing different strains of B.
pumilus was found to enhance the targeted metabolites in foliage significantly.
Real-time PCR studies were conducted for the biochemical pathway genes of the
targeted molecules, including, γ-tocopherol methyltransferase (γ-TMT), phytoene
synthase (PSY), phytoene desaturase (PDS), lycopene β cyclase (LBC) and
dihydrofolate reductase thymidylate synthase (DHFR-TS). All the selected genes
exhibited an up-regulation compared to control, similar to the biochemical
output. Our investigation provides the strong evidence that PGPR can be viably
utilized in combination to enhance the quality of the food crops.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2020.112506 
PMID: 32920264 

