
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Apr;70(4):2696-2702. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004096.
Epub 2020 Mar 26.

Bacillus salinus sp. nov., isolated from commercial solar salt.

Kang H(1), Kang J(1), Cha I(1), Kim H(1), Joung Y(2), Jang TY(1), Joh K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Hankuk University of Foreign
Studies, Gyeonggi 17035, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Life Science, College of Natural Science, Kyonggi University,
Gyeonggi 16227, Republic of Korea.

Two strains of Gram-stain-positive, strictly aerobic, motile, spore-forming,
rod-shaped, moderately halotolerant bacteria, designated as HMF5848T and HME7618,
were isolated from salt/brine and subjected to a polyphasic taxonomic
investigation. Growth of both yellow-coloured strains occurred in the presence of
1-9 % NaCl (w/v; optimum, 2-3 %), at 15-45 °C (optimum, 37 °C) and pH 6-9
(optimum, pH 7). The major fatty acids were iso-C15 : 0, iso-C16 : 0 and
anteiso-C15 : 0. The cell-wall peptidoglycan was meso-diaminopimelic acid. The
only respiratory quinone was menaquinone-7. The major polar lipids were
diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol, four unidentified glycolipids,
three unidentified phospholipids and two unidentified polar lipids. DNA G+C
content was 37.4 mol%. Phylogenetic trees based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed
that strains HMF5848T and HME7618 clustered with Bacillus luteolus YIM 93174T.
Strains HMF5848T showed the highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities to
Bacillus humi LMG 22167T (96.1 %), Bacillus isabeliae CVS-8T (96.0 %) and
Bacillus luteolus YIM 93174T (96.0 %). The values of in silico DNA-DNA
hybridization and average nucleotide identity between strains HMF5848T and B.
humi DSM 16318T were 25.8 and 69.7 %, respectively. On the basis of phylogenetic,
physiological and chemotaxonomic properties, strain HMF5848T represents a novel
species, Bacillus salinus sp. nov. The type strain is HMF5848T (=KCTC 43010T=CECT
9695T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004096 
PMID: 32213250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

