
1. Saudi J Biol Sci. 2020 Oct;27(10):2778-2789. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2020.06.038.
Epub 2020 Jun 27.

Microbial Diversity of Some Sabkha and Desert Sites in Saudi Arabia.

Alotaibi MO(1), Sonbol HS(1), Alwakeel SS(1), Suliman RS(2), Fodah RA(3), Abu
Jaffal AS(3), AlOthman NI(1), Mohammed AE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, College of Science, Princess Nourah Bint Abdulrahman
University, 84428 Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Pharmaceutical Sciences Department, College of Pharmacy, King Saud bin
Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Clinical Laboratory Sciences (CLAB) Program, College of Applied Medical
Sciences, King Saud bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences, Saudi Arabia.

Several studies isolated fungal and bacterial species from extreme environments, 
such as Sabkha and hot deserts, as their natural habitat, some of which are of
medicinal importance. Current research aimed investigating the microbial (fungi
and bacteria) diversity and abundance in Sabkha and desert areas in Saudi Arabia.
Soil samples from nine different geographical areas (Al-Aushazia lake, AlQasab,
AlKasar, Tabuk, Al-Kharj, Al-Madina, Jubail, Taif and Abqaiq) were collected and 
cultured for microbial isolation. Isolated fungi and bacteria were identified by 
molecular techniques (PCR and sequencing). Based on 18S rDNA sequencing, 203
fungal species belonging to 33 genera were identified. The most common fungal
genera were Fusarium, Alternaria, Chaetomium, Aspergillus Cochliobolus and
Pencillium, while the most common species were Chaetomium globosum and Fusarium
oxysporum. By 16S rDNA sequencing 22 bacterial species belonging to only two
genera, Bacillus and Lactobacillus, were identified. The most commonly isolated
bacterial species were Bacillus subtilis and Lactobacillus murinus. Some fungal
species were confined to specific locations, such as Actinomyces elegans,
Fusarium proliferatum, Gymnoascus reesii and Myzostoma spp. that were only
isolated from Al-Aushazia soil. AlQasab soil had the highest microbial diversity 
among other areas with abundances of 23.5% and 4.4% of total fungi, and bacteria,
respectively. Findings of this study show a higher degree of fungal diversity
than that of bacteria in all studied areas. Further studies needed to investigate
the connection between some isolated species and their habitat ecology, as well
as to identify those of medicinal importance.

Â© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2020.06.038 
PMCID: PMC7499299
PMID: 32994737 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.

