
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Sep 12. doi: 10.1007/s00253-020-10897-1. [Epub
ahead of print]

Enhancing the decolorization activity of Bacillus pumilus W3 CotA-laccase to
Reactive Black 5 by site-saturation mutagenesis.

Ma H(1), Xu KZ(1), Wang YJ(1), Yan N(1), Liao XR(1), Guan ZB(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, People's Republic of China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, People's Republic of China. 
guanzb@jiangnan.edu.cn.

Reactive Black 5 (RB5) is a typical refractory azo dye. Widespread utilization of
RB5 has caused a variety of environmental and health problems. The enzymatic
degradation of RB5 can be a promising solution due to its superiority as an
eco-friendly and cost-competitive process. Bacterial CotA-laccase shows great
application prospect to eliminate hazardous dyes from wastewater. However,
efficient decolorization of RB5 CotA-laccase generally requires the participation
of costly, toxic mediators. In the present study, we modified the amino acids
Thr415 and Thr418 near the type 1 copper site and the amino acid Gln442 at the
entrance of the substrate-binding pocket of Bacillus pumilus W3 CotA-laccase to
boost its RB5 decolorization activity based on molecular docking analysis and
site-saturation mutagenesis. Through the strategies, two double site mutants
T415D/Q442A and T418K/Q442A obtained demonstrated 43.94 and 52.64% RB5
decolorization rates in the absence of a mediator at pH 10.0, respectively, which
were about 3.70- and 4.43-fold higher compared with the wild-type CotA-laccase.
Unexpectedly, the catalytic efficiency of the T418K/Q442A to ABTS was enhanced by
5.33-fold compared with the wild-type CotA-laccase. The mechanisms of conferring 
enhanced activity to the mutants were proposed by structural analysis. In
summary, the mutants T415D/Q442A and T418K/Q442A have good application potentials
for the biodegradation of RB5. KEY POINTS: • Three amino acids of CotA-laccase
were manipulated by site-saturation mutagenesis. • Decolorization rate of two
mutants to RB5 was enhanced 3.70- and 4.43-fold, respectively. • The mechanisms
of awarding enhanced activity to the mutants were supposed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10897-1 
PMID: 32918582 

