
1. Saudi J Biol Sci. 2020 Oct;27(10):2660-2668. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2020.06.002.
Epub 2020 Jun 8.

Bacterial isolates harboring antibiotics and heavy-metal resistance genes
co-existing with mobile genetic elements in natural aquatic water bodies.

Sultan I(1), Ali A(1), Gogry FA(1), Rather IA(2)(3), Sabir JSM(2)(3), Haq QMR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosciences, Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi 110025, India.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz
University (KAU), P.O. Box 80141, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Center of Excellence in Bionanoscience Research, King Abdulaziz University
(KAU), P.O. Box 80141, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia.

The rise in antibiotic-resistant bacteria and contamination of water bodies is a 
serious issue that demands immense attention of scientific acumen. Here, we
examined the pervasiveness of ESBL producing bacteria in Dal Lake and Wular Lake 
of Kashmir valley, India. Isolates were screened for antibiotic, heavy metal
resistant elements, and their coexistence with mobile genetic elements. Out of
two hundred one isolates screened, thirty-eight were found positive for ESBL
production. Antibiotic profiling of ESBL positive isolates with 16 different
drugs representing β-lactam or -non-β-lactam, exhibited multidrug resistance
phenotype among 55% isolates. Molecular characterization revealed the occurrence 
of drug resistance determinants blaTEM, AmpC, qnrS, and heavy metal resistance
genes (MRGs) merB, merP, merT, silE, silP, silS, and arsC. Furthermore, mobile
genetic elements IntI, SulI, ISecp1, TN3, TN21 were also detected. Conjugation
assay confirmed the transfer of different ARGs, HMRGs, and mobile elements in
recipient Escherichia coli J53 AZR strain. Plasmid incompatibility studies showed
blaTEM to be associated with Inc groups B/O, HI1, HI2, I1, N, FIA, and FIB.
Co-occurrence of blaTEM, HMRGs, and mobile elements from the aquatic milieu of
Kashmir, India has not been reported so far. From this study, the detection of
the blaTEM gene in the bacteria Bacillus simplex and Brevibacterium
frigoritolerans are found for the first time. Considering all the facts it
becomes crucial to conduct studies in natural aquatic environments that could
help depict the epidemiological situations in which the resistance mechanism
might have clinical relevance.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2020.06.002 
PMCID: PMC7499102
PMID: 32994725 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.

