
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jun 10;11:1010. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01010. eCollection 
2020.

Survival and Germination of Bacillus clausii UBBC07 Spores in in vitro Human
Gastrointestinal Tract Simulation Model and Evaluation of Clausin Production.

Ahire JJ(1), Kashikar MS(1), Madempudi RS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research & Development, Unique Biotech Ltd., Hyderabad, India.

Bacillus clausii UBBC07 is a commercial spore probiotic known to reduce diarrhea 
in children and adults. In the present study, survival and germination of UBBC07 
spores were investigated under fed and fasted conditions in Simulator of Human
Intestinal Microbial Ecosystem. Besides this, lantibiotic production,
purification, and characterization were performed. The agar plate analysis showed
that spores were 100% tolerant to fed and fasted gastrointestinal tract (GIT)
conditions. Simultaneously, flow cytometry revealed that at the end of small
intestinal incubation, 120% (fed) and 133% (fasted) spores were in viable
germinating state. The transformation of viable germinating spores into viable
vegetative cells was observed at 3 h of incubation under fasted GIT conditions.
In antimicrobial evaluation, UBBC07 produced low-molecular-weight (2107.94 Da)
class I lantibiotic clausin. The presence of lanB, lanC, and lanD genes confirms 
the clausin production. Clausin is stable at proteases (pepsin, proteinase K, and
trypsin), temperature (up to 100°C), and pH (up to 11). Furthermore, the
antimicrobial activity toward Gram-positive bacteria including Clostridium
difficile is advantageous. In conclusion, B. clausii UBBC07 spore probiotic is
capable of surviving and germinating under in vitro upper GIT conditions. The
clausin production justifies strain applicability in diarrhea.

Copyright © 2020 Ahire, Kashikar and Madempudi.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01010 
PMCID: PMC7358638
PMID: 32733389 

