
1. J Food Sci Technol. 2020 Jun;57(6):2293-2302. doi: 10.1007/s13197-020-04267-y.
Epub 2020 Feb 10.

Bacillus cereus: public health burden associated with ready-to-eat foods in
Himachal Pradesh, India.

Rana N(1), Panda AK(1), Pathak N(1), Gupta T(2), Thakur SD(1).

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Veterinary Public Health and Epidemiology, Dr. GC Negi College 
of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, CSK Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University, 
Palampur, Himachal Pradesh 176062 India.
(2)2Department of Veterinary Microbiology, Dr. GC Negi College of Veterinary and 
Animal Sciences, CSK Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University, Palampur, Himachal
Pradesh 176062 India.

The study determined incidence, enterotoxigenecity and antimicrobial
susceptibility profiles of Bacillus cereus isolated from ready-to-eat (RTE) milk 
products (n = 80), RTE meat products (n = 40), beverages (n = 40) and water
samples (n = 60, from food preparing and serving outlets/restaurants) collected
from eight different tourist places of Himachal Pradesh. 11.4% (25/220) samples
were contaminated with Bacillus and isolates were identified as B. cereus (76.0%,
n = 19), B. alvei (12.0%, n = 3), B. polymyxa (8.0%, n = 2) and B. firmus (4.0%, 
n = 1) by conventional and molecular methods. B. cereus incidence was highest in 
cheese based foods (25.0%) followed by vegetable soups (16.7%), khoa based foods 
(14.0%), milk based beverages (10.5%), paneer based foods (8.6%), cream based
foods (8.3%) and water (8.3%) samples. Multiplex polymerase chain reaction
detected enterotoxigenic genes only in B. cereus isolates. nhe complex (encoding 
non-haemolytic enterotoxins, ABC) genes were detected only in B. cereus isolates.
57.6% (11/19), 36.8% (7/19) and 5.3% (1/19) harboured all three (nheA, nheB,
nheC), two (nheB, nheC) and one (nheC) nhe gene, respectively. Among hbl complex 
genes (encoding haemolytic enterotoxins CAD), only hblC (36.8%, 7/19) was
detected. Incidence B. cereus cytK (encoding cytotoxin enterotoxin) was 52.6%
(10/19). Each B. cereus isolate harboured two or more enterotoxigenic genes.
Seven isolates had at least one gene from haemolytic and non-haemolytic complexes
along with cytK. High levels (> 50%) of antimicrobial resistance were recorded
for penicillin, amoxicillin, ampicillin cefixime and ceftazidine in tested B.
cereus isolates. Two isolates were identified as multidrug resistant isolates
with resistance to ≥ 3 antibiotic classes.

© Association of Food Scientists & Technologists (India) 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-020-04267-y 
PMCID: PMC7230110 [Available on 2021-06-01]
PMID: 32431355 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that
there is no conflict of interest.

