
1. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2020 Sep 29. doi: 10.1007/s00449-020-02452-z. [Epub ahead
of print]

Enhanced production of poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate) biopolymer by
recombinant Bacillus megaterium in fed-batch bioreactors.

Akdoğan M(1), Çelik E(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Hacettepe University, Beytepe, 06800,
Ankara, Turkey.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Hacettepe University, Beytepe, 06800,
Ankara, Turkey. edacelik@hacettepe.edu.tr.
(3)Institute of Science, Bioengineering Division, Hacettepe University, Beytepe, 
06800, Ankara, Turkey. edacelik@hacettepe.edu.tr.

Polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs) are biodegradable polyesters accumulated in a wide
variety of microorganisms as intracellular carbon and energy storage compounds.
Poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate) (PHBV) is one of the most valuable
biopolymers because of its superior mechanical properties. Here, we developed a
bioprocess utilizing recombinant Bacillus megaterium strain for PHBV
over-production from glucose, without any precursor addition. PHA production was 
performed in a controlled bioreactor by batch and fed-batch modes using wild-type
B. megaterium and rec-B. megaterium cells overexpressing the native phaC gene.
The effect of oxygen transfer rate on biomass formation and PHA accumulation was 
also investigated, under different dissolved oxygen levels. Structural and
thermal properties of PHA were characterized by GC-FID, 1H-NMR, TGA and DSC
analyses. Significantly, the copolymer produced from glucose as the carbon source
in rec-B. megaterium was composed of 58 mol% of 3-hydroxyvalerate monomers. After
66 h, rec-B. megaterium cells in fed-batch fermentation with a pre-determined
growth rate µ0 = 0.1 h-1 produced the highest CDW (7.7 g L-1) and PHA
concentration (6.1 g L-1). Moreover, an exponential glucose feeding profile
resulted in 2.2-fold increase in PHA yield compared to batch cultivation.
Overall, this study paves the way to an enhanced biopolymer production process in
B. megaterium cells, where the highest product yield on cell was obtained as
YP/X = 0.8 g g-1.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-020-02452-z 
PMID: 32995978 

