
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Apr;202(3):567-578. doi: 10.1007/s00203-019-01773-2. Epub
2019 Nov 18.

Screening of plant growth promoting attributes and arsenic remediation efficacy
of bacteria isolated from agricultural soils of Chhattisgarh.

Pandey N(1)(2)(3), Manjunath K(2), Sahu K(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Studies in Biotechnology, Pt. Ravishankar Shukla University, Raipur,
492 010, India.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Biotechnology, Jnana Bharathi Campus, Bangalore
University, Bengaluru, 560 056, India.
(3)Kristu Jayanti College (Autonomous), K. Narayanapura, Kothanur, Bengaluru, 560
077, India.
(4)School of Studies in Biotechnology, Pt. Ravishankar Shukla University, Raipur,
492 010, India. skeshavkant@gmail.com.

Arsenic (As) resistant indigenous bacteria with discrete minimum inhibitory
concentration values for arsenate [As(V)] and arsenite [As(III)] were isolated
from the paddy fields of different regions of Chhattisgarh, India, following
enrichment culture technique. Evaluation of the plant growth promoting (PGP)
properties of the isolates revealed that two rod-shaped Gram-positive bacteria
viz., ARP2 and ART2 acquired various PGP traits, including phosphate
solubilization, production of siderophore, indole acetic acid, ammonia, and
exopolysaccharide. Both the isolates significantly increased (40-80%) the root
length of Oryza sativa L. even under As-exposure. Sequencing of 16S rRNA gene
identified these isolates as Bacillus nealsonii strain ARP2 and Bacillus
tequilensis strain ART2, respectively. Isolate ARP2 exhibited arsenate reductase 
activity thereby rapidly reduced As(V) into As(III), achieving a reduction rate
of 37.5 μM min-1. Alike, strain ART2 was capable of oxidizing As(III) into As(V) 
via arsenite oxidase enzyme, and revealed the oxidation rate of 21.8 μM min-1.
Quantitative estimation of As through atomic absorption spectrophotometer
revealed that the isolates ARP2 and ART2 removed 93 ± 0.2% and 77 ± 0.14% of
As(V) and As(III), respectively, from As-containing culture media. The FTIR
analysis showed the interaction of As with the cell membrane and was further
confirmed by SEM and TEM techniques, which marked the increase in cell volume
owing to successive accumulation of As. The As-resistant and PGP properties of
above two isolates demonstrates their potentiality for sustainable bioremediation
of As, and establishment of flora in As-rich environment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-019-01773-2 
PMID: 31741012  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

