
1. G3 (Bethesda). 2020 Mar 5;10(3):881-890. doi: 10.1534/g3.119.400716.

Whole Genome Sequencing and Comparative Genomics of Two Nematicidal Bacillus
Strains Reveals a Wide Range of Possible Virulence Factors.

Susič N(1), Janežič S(2), Rupnik M(2), Stare BG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, Plant Protection Department, Ljubljana,
Slovenia; and.
(2)Centre for Medical Microbiology, Department for Microbiological Research,
National Laboratory of Health, Environment and Food (NLZOH), Maribor, Slovenia.
(3)Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, Plant Protection Department, Ljubljana,
Slovenia; and barbara.geric@kis.si.

Erratum in
    G3 (Bethesda). 2020 Sep 2;10(9):3465.

Bacillus firmus nematicidal bacterial strains are used to control plant parasitic
nematode infestation of crops in agricultural production. Proteases are presumed 
to be the primary nematode virulence factors in nematicidal B. firmus degrading
the nematode cuticle and other organs. We determined and compared the whole
genome sequences of two nematicidal strains. Comparative genomics with a
particular focus on possible virulence determinants revealed a wider range of
possible virulence factors in a B. firmus isolate from a commercial bionematicide
and a wild type Bacillus sp. isolate with nematicidal activity. The resulting 4.6
Mb B. firmus I-1582 and 5.3 Mb Bacillus sp. ZZV12-4809 genome assemblies contain 
respectively 18 and 19 homologs to nematode-virulent proteases, two
nematode-virulent chitinase homologs in ZZV12-4809 and 28 and 36 secondary
metabolite biosynthetic clusters, projected to encode antibiotics, small
peptides, toxins and siderophores. The results of this study point to the genetic
capability of B. firmus and related species for nematode virulence through a
range of direct and indirect mechanisms.

Copyright © 2020 Susic et al.

DOI: 10.1534/g3.119.400716 
PMCID: PMC7056983
PMID: 31919110 

