
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 Nov 2;332:108772. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108772. Epub 2020 Jun 25.

Effect of peracetic acid on ascospore-forming molds and test microorganisms used 
for bio-validations of sanitizing processes in food plants.

Scaramuzza N(1), Mutti P(1), Cigarini M(1), Berni E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Stazione Sperimentale per l'Industria delle Conserve Alimentari, SSICA, Viale 
F. Tanara, 31/A, 43121 Parma, Italy.
(2)Stazione Sperimentale per l'Industria delle Conserve Alimentari, SSICA, Viale 
F. Tanara, 31/A, 43121 Parma, Italy. Electronic address: elettra.berni@ssica.it.

Industrial sterilization of packaging and filling machineries by peracetic acid
(PAA) is a widespread practice. In our study we assessed the resistance to PAA of
three ascospore-forming molds (Chaetomium globosum ATCC 6205; Talaromyces
bacillisporus SSICA 10915; Aspergillus hiratsukae SSICA 3913) compared to that of
Aspergillus brasiliensis ATCC 16404 and Bacillus atrophaeus DSM 675, that are
currently used as test microorganisms during industrial bio-validations of food
packaging and machineries. Tests were carried out at 40 °C using 1,000 mg/l of
PAA, with or without a supporting material (aluminium, tin-plate, PET). At all
conditions tested, a greater resistance to PAA was registered for C. globosum,
followed by T. bacillisporus, A. hiratsukae, A. brasiliensis and B. atrophaeus.
D-values of C. globosum varied from 23 to 68 min, whereas T. bacillisporus showed
D-values from 83 to 352 s and A. hiratsukae showed D-values from 32 to 65 s.
Surprisingly, both test microorganisms (A. brasiliensis and B. atrophaeus) proved
less resistant than ascospore-forming molds tested, their D-values being always
lower than 30 s. Cells treated without a supporting material proved more
resistant than those deposited on plastic or metallic strips, with the exception 
of tin-plate, where results approaching those obtained without a supporting
materials were obtained. Based on the results obtained in this paper, test
microorganisms currently used for bio-validations in industrial plants and also
heat-resistant strains proved sensibly less resistant to PAA than C. globosum.
Therefore, for practical purposes C. globosum should be furtherly studied to
understand if its use during bio-validations of sanitizing processes could lead
to more performing results.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108772 
PMID: 32622248 

