
1. Membranes (Basel). 2020 Aug 27;10(9). pii: E203. doi: 10.3390/membranes10090203.

Continuous Production of Galacto-Oligosaccharides by an Enzyme Membrane Reactor
Utilizing Free Enzymes.

Cao T(1), Pázmándi M(1)(2), Galambos I(3), Kovács Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Engineering, Szent István University, Budapest 1118,
Hungary.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Biotechnology, Szent István University,
Budapest 1118, Hungary.
(3)Soós Ernő Water Technology Research and Development Center, University of
Pannonia, Nagykanizsa 8200, Hungary.

Galacto-oligosaccharides (GOS) are prebiotic compounds widely used for their
health-promoting effects. Conventionally, GOS is produced by the enzymatic
conversion of lactose in stirred tank reactors (STR). The high operational costs 
associated with enzyme inactivation and removal might be reduced by the
application of enzyme membrane reactors (EMR). In this study, we aimed to assess 
the potential of continuous GOS production by EMR using soluble Biolacta N5, a
Bacillus circulans-derived commercial enzyme preparation. The steady-state
performance of the EMR equipped with an ultrafiltration module was investigated
as function of residence time (1.1-2.8 h) and enzyme load (17-190 U·g-1) under
fixed operational settings of temperature (50 °C), pH (6.0), lactose feed
concentration (300 g·kg-1), and recirculation flow-rate (0.18 m3·h-1). Results
indicate that the yield of oligosaccharides with higher degree of polymerization 
(DP3-6) in STR (approx. 38% on total carbohydrate basis) exceeds that measured in
EMR (ranging from 24% to 33%). However, a stable catalytic performance without a 
significant deterioration in product quality was observed when operating the EMR 
for an extended period of time (> 120 h). Approx. 1.4 kg of DP3-6 was produced
per one gram of crude enzyme preparation over the long-term campaigns, indicating
that EMR efficiently recovers enzyme activity.

DOI: 10.3390/membranes10090203 
PMID: 32867283 

