
1. J Invertebr Pathol. 2020 Sep 22:107474. doi: 10.1016/j.jip.2020.107474. [Epub
ahead of print]

Aegerolysins from the fungal genus Pleurotus - Bioinsecticidal proteins with
multiple potential applications.

Panevska A(1), Skočaj M(2), Modic Š(3), Razinger J(4), Sepčić K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Biotechnical Faculty, University of Ljubljana,
Jamnikarjeva 101, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address:
anastasija.panevska@bf.uni-lj.si.
(2)Department of Biology, Biotechnical Faculty, University of Ljubljana,
Jamnikarjeva 101, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address:
matej.skocaj@bf.uni-lj.si.
(3)Plant Protection Department, Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, Hacquetova
17, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address: spela.modic@kis.si.
(4)Plant Protection Department, Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, Hacquetova
17, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address: jaka.razinger@kis.si.
(5)Department of Biology, Biotechnical Faculty, University of Ljubljana,
Jamnikarjeva 101, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. Electronic address:
kristina.sepcic@bf.uni-lj.si.

The aegerolysin proteins ostreolysin A6, pleurotolysin A2 and erylysin A are
produced by mushrooms of the genus Pleurotus. These aegerolysins can interact
specifically with sphingolipid-enriched membranes. In particular, they strongly
bind insect cells and to artificial lipid membranes that contain physiologically 
relevant concentrations of the main invertebrate-specific sphingolipid, ceramide 
phosphoethanolamine. Moreover, the aegerolysins permeabilise these membranes when
combined with their protein partner pleurotolysin B, which contains a
membrane-attack-complex/perforin domain. These aegerolysin/ pleurotolysin B
complexes show strong and selective toxicity towards western corn rootworm larvae
and adults and Colorado potato beetle larvae. Their insecticidal activities arise
through aegerolysin binding to ceramide phosphoethanolamine in the insect midgut.
This mode of membrane binding is different from those described for similar
aegerolysin-based complexes of bacterial origin (e.g., Cry34Ab1/Cry35Ab1), or
other Bacillus thuringiensis proteinaceous crystal toxins, which associate with
protein receptors. The ability of Pleurotus aegerolysins to specifically interact
with sphingolipid-enriched domains in mammalian cells can be further exploited to
visualize lipid rafts in living cells, and to treat certain types of tumours and 
metabolic disorders. Finally, these proteins can strongly enhance fruiting
initiation of P. ostreatus even when applied externally. In this review, we
summarise the current knowledge of the potential biotechnological and biomedical 
applications of the Pleurotus aegerolysins, either alone or when complexed with
pleurotolysin B, with special emphasis on their bioinsecticidal effects.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jip.2020.107474 
PMID: 32971130 

