
1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2020 Aug 25;206:111189. doi:
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.111189. [Epub ahead of print]

Combined biochar and metal-immobilizing bacteria reduces edible tissue metal
uptake in vegetables by increasing amorphous Fe oxides and abundance of Fe- and
Mn-oxidising Leptothrix species.

Cheng C(1), Luo W(1), Wang Q(1), He L(1), Sheng X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Agricultural and Environmental Microbiology, Ministry of
Agriculture, College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, 
210095, Jiangsu, PR China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Agricultural and Environmental Microbiology, Ministry of
Agriculture, College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, 
210095, Jiangsu, PR China. Electronic address: xfsheng@njau.edu.cn.

In this study, a highly effective combined biochar and metal-immobilizing
bacteria (Bacillus megaterium H3 and Serratia liquefaciens CL-1) (BHC) was
characterized for its effects on solution Pb and Cd immobilization and edible
tissue biomass and Pb and Cd accumulation in Chinese cabbages and radishes and
the mechanisms involved in metal-polluted soils. In the metal-containing solution
treated with BHC, the Pb and Cd concentrations decreased, while the pH and cell
numbers of strains H3 and CL-1 increased over time. BHC significantly increased
the edible tissue dry weight by 17-34% and reduced the edible tissue Pb
(0.32-0.46 mg kg-1) and Cd (0.16 mg kg-1) contents of the vegetables by 24-45%.
In the vegetable rhizosphere soils, BHC significantly decreased the acid-soluble 
Pb (1.81-2.21 mg kg-1) and Cd (0.40-0.48 mg kg-1) contents by 26-47% and
increased the reducible Pb (18.2-18.8 mg kg-1) and Cd (0.38-0.39 mg kg-1)
contents by 10-111%; while BHC also significantly increased the pH, urease
activity by 115-169%, amorphous Fe oxides content by 12-19%, and relative
abundance of gene copy numbers of Fe- and Mn-oxidising Leptothrix species by
28-73% compared with the controls. These results suggested that BHC decreased
edible tissue metal uptake of the vegetables by increasing pH, urease activity,
amorphous Fe oxides, and Leptothrix species abundance in polluted soil. These
results may provide an effective and eco-friendly way for metal remediation and
reducing metal uptake in vegetables by using combined biochar and
metal-immobilizing bacteria in polluted soils.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.111189 
PMID: 32858328 

