
1. Eng Life Sci. 2019 Nov 28;20(3-4):133-144. doi: 10.1002/elsc.201900121.
eCollection 2020 Mar.

Online monitoring of the respiratory quotient reveals metabolic phases during
microaerobic 2,3-butanediol production with Bacillus licheniformis.

Heyman B(1), Tulke H(1), Putri SP(2), Fukusaki E(2), Büchs J(1).

Author information: 
(1)AVT-Biochemical Engineering RWTH Aachen University Aachen Germany.
(2)Department of Biotechnology Graduate School of Engineering Osaka University
Osaka Japan.

Microaerobic cultivation conditions are often beneficial for the biotechnological
production of reduced metabolites like 2,3-butanediol. However, due to oxygen
limitation, process monitoring based on oxygen transfer rate, or dissolved oxygen
measurement provides only limited information. In this study, online monitoring
of the respiratory quotient is used to investigate the metabolic activity of
Bacillus licheniformis DSM 8785 during mixed acid-2,3-butanediol production under
microaerobic conditions. Thereby, the respiratory quotient provides valuable
information about different metabolic phases. Based on partial reaction
stoichiometries, the metabolic activity in each phase of the cultivation was
revealed, explaining the course of the respiratory quotient. This provides
profound information on the formation or consumption of glucose, 2,3-butanediol, 
ethanol and lactate, both, in shake flasks and stirred tank reactor cultivations.
Furthermore, the average respiratory quotient correlates with the oxygen
availability during the cultivation. Carbon mass balancing revealed that this
reflects the increased formation of reduced metabolites with increasing oxygen
limitation. The results clearly demonstrate that the respiratory quotient is a
valuable online signal to reveal and understand the metabolic activity during
microaerobic cultivations. The approach of combining respiratory quotient
monitoring with stoichiometric considerations can be applied to other organisms
and processes to define suitable cultivation conditions to produce the desired
product spectrum.

© 2019 The Authors. Engineering in Life Sciences published by WILEY‐VCH Verlag
GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/elsc.201900121 
PMCID: PMC7447875
PMID: 32874177 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared no conflict of
interest.

