
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Jun 15;153:1220-1230. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2019.10.252. Epub 2019 Nov 19.

Mining of alkaline proteases from Bacillus altitudinis W3 for desensitization of 
milk proteins: Their heterologous expression, purification, and characterization.

Yang S(1), Zhai L(1), Huang L(1), Meng D(1), Li J(1), Hao Z(2), Guan Z(1), Cai
Y(1), Liao X(3).

Author information: 
(1)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122,
China.
(2)Institute of Applied Biotechnology, Taizhou Vocational & Technical College,
Taizhou, Zhejiang 318000, China.
(3)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122,
China. Electronic address: 13771104596@163.com.

In this study, three active alkaline proteases (AprEs) (BaApr1, BaApr2, and
BaApr9) from Bacillus altitudinis W3 were obtained through bioinformatics
analysis and verification. Multiple sequence alignment showed low identity of
64.60% and suggested that the three AprEs belonged to the S8A subfamily of serine
proteases. They showed maximal activity with pH of 9.5 at 55 °C, 8.5 at 50 °C,
and 10.5 at 45 °C, respectively. They were stable at alkaline condition and below
50 °C. In the presence of Ca2+, the optimal temperatures and thermostability of
them were significantly improved. They were activated by Ca2+ and Mg2+ but
inhibited by ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) and phenylmethanesulfonyl
fluoride (PMSF). Surfactants had little effect on them, but most organic solvents
had some inhibitory effect except for n-hexane. They were effective in
hydrolyzing natural proteins such as casein and NON-fat powdered milk. BaApr1
exhibited the highest catalytic efficiency towards casein and showed an excellent
effect on the desensitization of milk proteins. The present study reveals some
useful characteristics of the three AprEs, and indicates that AprEs have
potential application values in the desensitization process of milk proteins.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2019.10.252 
PMID: 31756468 

