
1. Biotechnol Appl Biochem. 2019 Nov;66(6):955-961. doi: 10.1002/bab.1811. Epub 2019
Sep 30.

Calcium ion induced thermodynamic stability, bisubstrate specificity, and
differential organic solvent tolerance of a predominantly β-sheet serine protease
from Bacillus aquimaris VITP4.

Thaz CJ(1), Jayaraman G(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Bio Sciences and Technology, Vellore Institute of Technology,
Vellore, India.

The present study was aimed to get insights on the role of calcium ions on the
thermodynamic stability, substrate specificity, and organic solvent compatibility
of the extracellular protease produced by Bacillus aquimaris VITP4. Presence of
Ca2+ enhanced the activity of the enzyme in the temperature range of 30-60 °C and
increased the half-life from 164 to 234 Min. Circular dichroism experiments
indicated that the temperature of half-denaturation (Tm ) of the protease
increased from 76 to 86 °C. As judged by fluorescence emission profiles, the
overall fold of the enzyme around the tryptophan residues could be similar.
Further, thermal inactivation experiments revealed that the enzyme followed first
order kinetics, with increase in energy for inactivation (Eai ) by
24.2 ± 1.2 kJ mol -1 in the presence of Ca2+ . Studies with synthetic peptides as
well as with bovine serum albumin signified preferential hydrolysis of the
peptide bonds at the C-terminus of alanine residues (with a kcat /KM of
141,400 M-1  Sec-1 ) and at the C-terminus of arginine residues with a lower
specificity (72,400 M-1  Sec-1 ), indicating bisubstrate specificity of the
enzyme. The enzyme was found to be compatible with organic solvents (50%, v/v)
such as acetonitrile and butanol, indicating possible application under demanding
nonaqueous conditions.

© 2019 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bab.1811 
PMID: 31486109  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

