
1. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2020 Oct;140:109624. doi: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2020.109624.
Epub 2020 Jun 20.

Sequence analysis and docking performance of extracellular chitinase from
Bacillus pumilus MCB-7, a novel mangrove isolate.

K S R(1), Varghese S(2), M S J(3).

Author information: 
(1)UniBiosys Biotech Research Labs, Cochin, Kerala, India.
(2)School of Biosciences, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, Kerala, India.
(3)School of Biosciences, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, Kerala, India.
Electronic address: jishams@mgu.ac.in.

Bacterial chitinases has a major role in chitinaceous waste management,
biological control of pests and phytopathogens. In the present study,
exochitinase gene ChitA encoding extracellular chitinase from the mangrove
bacteria Bacillus pumilus MCB-07 was genetically characterized. Oligonucleotide
primers speciﬁc to chitinase gene of Bacillus pumilus were designed and amplified
by PCR. The puriﬁed PCR product was successfully cloned in pGEM-T vector and
transformed into Escherichia coli DH5-α competent cells. Nucleotide sequence
alignment of the chitinase gene revealed 96 % similarity whereas 94 % of the
catalytic domain of 598 amino acids is conserved with protein family GH18
chitinases, which is a novel report for Bacillus pumilus. The insert also showed 
a number of substitutions (mutations) with other sp. of Bacillus which
demonstrated that chitinase of Bacillus pumilus MCB-07 is a novel gene. Multiple 
sequence alignment of chitinase gene sequences and its predicted amino acid
sequences were also evaluated and the sequence was deposited in GenBank with
accession number KT966736.1. Homology modeling of the chitinase depicted the
typical (α/β) 8 TIM barrel structure. Molecular docking of the protein was
performed by Autodock 4.2.6 and the docked pocket contained Val 113, Met 114, Gln
99, Ala 75 and Cys 98 as the key binding residues. The molecular docking of
Bacillus pumilus chitinase, revealed the involvement of a phenylalanine of the
catalytic domain in the catalytic process of chitin to mono and oligomers of NAG.
The amino acid exhibited both hydrophobic and hydrogen bond interactions of
chitin molecules with phenylalanine.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2020.109624 
PMID: 32912684 

