
1. J Dairy Sci. 2019 Dec;102(12):10799-10813. doi: 10.3168/jds.2019-16623. Epub 2019
Sep 11.

The ability of spore formers to degrade milk proteins, fat, phospholipids, common
stabilizers, and exopolysaccharides.

Mehta DS(1), Metzger LE(2), Hassan AN(3), Nelson BK(4), Patel HA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Midwest Dairy Foods Research Center, Dairy and Food Science Department, South 
Dakota State University, Brookings 57007; Research and Development, Wells
Enterprises Inc., Le Mars, IA 51031.
(2)Midwest Dairy Foods Research Center, Dairy and Food Science Department, South 
Dakota State University, Brookings 57007. Electronic address:
lloyd.metzger@sdstate.edu.
(3)Midwest Dairy Foods Research Center, Dairy and Food Science Department, South 
Dakota State University, Brookings 57007; Daisy Brand, Garland, TX 75041.
(4)Daisy Brand, Garland, TX 75041.
(5)Midwest Dairy Foods Research Center, Dairy and Food Science Department, South 
Dakota State University, Brookings 57007; Dairy Foods Research and Development,
Land O'Lakes Inc., Arden Hills, MN 55126.

Spore formers are common spoilage-causing microorganisms in dairy products;
however, their modes of spoilage (proteolysis, lipolysis, etc.) have not been
described in detail for cultured dairy products such as sour cream and yogurt.
The objective of the present study was to test the ability of spore-forming
strains isolated from dairy environments for their spoilage-causing activities at
typical sour cream (24°C) and yogurt (42°C) fermentation temperatures. A total of
25 spore-forming strains were isolated from different sources, including raw
milk, pasteurizer balance tank, biofilms formed on heat exchangers, and milk
powder. These strains were tested for proteolytic and lipolytic activities and
for their ability to degrade phospholipids, common stabilizers (starch, gelatin, 
xanthan gum, pectin), and exopolysaccharides (EPS) at sour cream and yogurt
fermentation temperatures. A higher percentage of positive strains was observed
for selected activities at yogurt fermentation temperature compared with sour
cream fermentation temperature. Identified proteolytic spore-forming strains,
based on a skim milk agar method, were subsequently quantified for their level of
proteolysis using non-casein nitrogen (NCN) content and sodium dodecyl
sulfate-PAGE (SDS-PAGE). The proteolytic strains that showed the highest levels
of proteolysis (highest percentages of NCN content) at 24°C were Bacillus
mojavensis BC, Bacillus cereus DBC, Bacillus subtilis DBC, B. mojavensis DBC1,
and Paenibacillus polymyxa DBC1. At 42°C the strains with the highest levels of
proteolysis (highest percentages of NCN content) were B. subtilis DBC, B.
mojavensis BC, B. mojavensis DBC1, B. cereus DBC, and Bacillus licheniformis
DBC6. Results of SDS-PAGE demonstrated that proteolytic strains had primarily
hydrolyzed β- and κ-CN. A viscometric method was used to evaluate the
susceptibility of exopolysaccharides (EPS) to degradation by selected spore
formers. This method helped to determine that EPS produced by commercial yogurt
and sour cream cultures is susceptible to degradation by spore formers present in
dairy environments.

Copyright © 2019 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2019-16623 
PMID: 31521346  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

