
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Sep 29;10(1):15938. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-72854-2.

Uridine diphosphate N-acetylglucosamine orchestrates the interaction of GlmR with
either YvcJ or GlmS in Bacillus subtilis.

Foulquier E(1), Pompeo F(1), Byrne D(2), Fierobe HP(1), Galinier A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Chimie Bactérienne, UMR7283, Institut de Microbiologie de La
Méditerranée, CNRS, Aix-Marseille Université, 31 Chemin Joseph Aiguier, 13402,
Marseille Cedex 20, France.
(2)Institut de Microbiologie de La Méditerranée, Protein Expression Facility,
CNRS, Aix Marseille Université, 31 Chemin Joseph Aiguier, 13402, Marseille Cedex 
20, France.
(3)Laboratoire de Chimie Bactérienne, UMR7283, Institut de Microbiologie de La
Méditerranée, CNRS, Aix-Marseille Université, 31 Chemin Joseph Aiguier, 13402,
Marseille Cedex 20, France. galinier@imm.cnrs.fr.

In bacteria, glucosamine-6-phosphate (GlcN6P) synthase, GlmS, is an enzyme
required for the synthesis of Uridine diphosphate N-acetylglucosamine
(UDP-GlcNAc), a precursor of peptidoglycan. In Bacillus subtilis, an UDP-GlcNAc
binding protein, GlmR (formerly YvcK), essential for growth on non-glycolytic
carbon sources, has been proposed to stimulate GlmS activity; this activation
could be antagonized by UDP-GlcNAc. Using purified proteins, we demonstrate that 
GlmR directly stimulates GlmS activity and the presence of UDP-GlcNAc (at
concentrations above 0.1 mM) prevents this regulation. We also showed that YvcJ, 
whose gene is associated with yvcK (glmR), interacts with GlmR in an UDP-GlcNAc
dependent manner. Strains producing GlmR variants unable to interact with YvcJ
show decreased transformation efficiency similar to that of a yvcJ null mutant.
We therefore propose that, depending on the intracellular concentration of
UDP-GlcNAc, GlmR interacts with either YvcJ or GlmS. When UDP-GlcNAc
concentration is high, this UDP-sugar binds to YvcJ and to GlmR, blocking the
stimulation of GlmS activity and driving the interaction between GlmR and YvcJ to
probably regulate the cellular role of the latter. When the UDP-GlcNAc level is
low, GlmR does not interact with YvcJ and thus does not regulate its cellular
role but interacts with GlmS to stimulate its activity.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-72854-2 
PMCID: PMC7525490
PMID: 32994436 

