
1. PLoS One. 2019 Nov 18;14(11):e0224689. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0224689.
eCollection 2019.

Structural analysis of the manganese transport regulator MntR from Bacillus
halodurans in apo and manganese bound forms.

Lee MY(1), Lee DW(1), Joo HK(1), Jeong KH(1), Lee JY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Science, Dongguk University-Seoul, Ilsandong-gu, Goyang-si,
Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.

The manganese transport regulator MntR is a metal-ion activated transcriptional
repressor of manganese transporter genes to maintain manganese ion homeostasis.
MntR, a member of the diphtheria toxin repressor (DtxR) family of
metalloregulators, selectively responds to Mn2+ and Cd2+ over Fe2+, Co2+ and
Zn2+. The DtxR/MntR family members are well conserved transcriptional repressors 
that regulate the expression of metal ion uptake genes by sensing the metal ion
concentration. MntR functions as a homo-dimer with one metal ion binding site per
subunit. Each MntR subunit contains two domains: an N-terminal DNA binding
domain, and a C-terminal dimerization domain. However, it lacks the C-terminal
SH3-like domain of DtxR/IdeR. The metal ion binding site of MntR is located at
the interface of the two domains, whereas the DtxR/IdeR subunit contains two
metal ion binding sites, the primary and ancillary sites, separated by 9 Ã…. In
this paper, we reported the crystal structures of the apo and Mn2+-bound forms of
MntR from Bacillus halodurans, and analyze the structural basis of the metal ion 
binding site. The crystal structure of the Mn2+-bound form is almost identical to
the apo form of MntR. In the Mn2+-bound structure, one subunit contains a
binuclear cluster of manganese ions, the A and C sites, but the other subunit
forms a mononuclear complex. Structural data about MntR from B. halodurans
supports the previous hypothesizes about manganese-specific activation mechanism 
of MntR homologues.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0224689 
PMCID: PMC6860424
PMID: 31738781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

