
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Aug 16. pii: S0141-8130(20)34189-1. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.08.101. [Epub ahead of print]

Optimization of immobilization conditions of Bacillus atrophaeus FSHM2 lipase on 
maleic copolymer coated amine-modified graphene oxide nanosheets and its
application for valeric acid esterification.

Ameri A(1), Shakibaie M(2), Khoobi M(3), Faramarzi MA(4), Gholibegloo E(5), Ameri
A(6), Forootanfar H(7).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Sciences and Cosmetic Products Research Center, Kerman
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(2)Pharmaceutics Research Center, Institute of Neuropharmacology, Kerman
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran; Department of Pharmaceutical
Biotechnology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kerman University of Medical Sciences,
Kerman, Iran. Electronic address: shakiba@kmu.ac.ir.
(3)Biomaterials Group, Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, The Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences (TIPS), Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 1417614411
Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Faculty of Pharmacy and
Biotechnology Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran,
Iran.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Biomaterials and Medical Biomaterials Research
Center, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kerman University of
Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(7)Pharmaceutical Sciences and Cosmetic Products Research Center, Kerman
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran; Department of Pharmaceutical
Biotechnology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kerman University of Medical Sciences,
Kerman, Iran. Electronic address: h_forootanfar@kmu.ac.ir.

The thermoalkalophilic lipase from Bacillus atrophaeus (BaL) was immobilized onto
amine-functionalized graphene oxide nanosheets coated with the poly (maleic
anhydride-alt-1-octadecene) copolymer (GO-NH2-PMAO) and activated with
glutaraldehyde as spacer arm through interfacial activation and subsequent
multipoint covalent attachment. Experimental design method was applied for
optimization of immobilization conditions including GO-NH2-PMAO concentration,
buffer concentration, pH, sonication time, enzyme concentration, glutaraldehyde
concentration, time, and temperature. The optimum specific activity of the
immobilized BaL (105.95 ± 2.37 U/mg) reached at 5 mg/mL for GO-NH2-PMAO, 25 mM of
buffer, pH 6.0, 60 min sonication time, 100 mM glutaraldehyde, 60 U/mL of enzyme,
and 4 h of immobilization time at 25 °C, which was very close to the predicted
amount (106.08 ± 1.42 U/mg). Maximum immobilization yield (81.35%) and efficiency
(277.63%) were determined in optimal immobilization conditions. The obtained
results clearly indicated that the immobilized BaL exhibited better stability at 
extreme temperature and pH than the free BaL. At temperature of 90 °C and pH 11, 
more than 90% of the initial activity of the immobilized BaL was retained.
Furthermore, the immobilized BaL retained about 90% of its initial activity after
10 days of storage and 6 cycles of application. The esterification studies showed
that maximum bioconversion of valeric acid to pentyl valerate using the free BaL 
(34.5%) and the immobilized BaL (96.3%) occurred in the xylene medium after 48 h 
of incubation at 60 °C. Therefore, the BaL immobilized on GO-NH2-PMAO was
introduced as an effective biocatalyst to synthesize green apple flavour ester.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.08.101 
PMID: 32814102 

