
1. Molecules. 2020 Jul 24;25(15). pii: E3360. doi: 10.3390/molecules25153360.

Antifungal Activity of Volatile Organic Compounds Produced by Bacillus
methylotrophicus and Bacillus thuringiensis against Five Common Spoilage Fungi on
Loquats.

He CN(1), Ye WQ(1), Zhu YY(1), Zhou WW(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Biosystems Engineering and Food Science, Zhejiang Key Laboratory
for Agro-Food Processing, National-Local Joint Engineering Laboratory of
Intelligent Food Technology and Equipment, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, 
China.

Loquat fruit is one of the most perishable fruits in China, and has a very
limited shelf life because of mechanical injury and microbial decay. Due to an
increasing concern about human health and environmental security, antagonistic
microorganisms have been a potential alternative for fungicides to control
postharvest diseases. In this work, the antifungal effect of volatile organic
compounds (VOCs) produced by Bacillus methylotrophicus BCN2 and Bacillus
thuringiensis BCN10 against five postharvest pathogens isolated from loquat
fruit, Fusarium oxysporum, Botryosphaeria sp., Trichoderma atroviride,
Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, and Penicillium expansum were evaluated by in
vitro and in vivo experiments. As a result, the VOCs released by BCN2 and BCN10
were able to suppress the mycelial growth of all targeted pathogens according to 
inhibition ratio in the double petri-dish assay as well as disease incidence and 
disease diameter on loquat fruits. The main volatile compounds were identified by
solid-phase microextraction (SPME)-gas chromatography. These VOCs produced by the
two strains played complementary roles in controlling these five molds and
enabled loquat fruits to keep fresh for ten days, significantly. This research
will provide a theoretic foundation and technical support for exploring the
functional components of VOCs applicable in loquat fruit preservation.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25153360 
PMCID: PMC7436122
PMID: 32722108 

