
1. 3 Biotech. 2020 Apr;10(4):153. doi: 10.1007/s13205-020-2138-1. Epub 2020 Mar 3.

A novel spectrophotometric method for simultaneous estimation of dibenzothiophene
and 2-hydroxybiphenyl in their mixed spectrum and its application in screening of
specific biodesulfurizing microbes.

Sharma R(1), Singh J(2), Verma N(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Biotechnology, Punjabi University, Patiala, Punjab 147002
India.
(2)2Department of Biotechnology, Mata Gujri College, Fatehgarh Sahib, Punjab
140406 India.
(3)3Chemistry and Division of Research and Development, Lovely Professional
University, Phagwara, Punjab 144411 India.

The desulfurization of fuel is currently enforced to meet environmental
legislation and prevent pollution. The use of specific biodesulfurizing microbes 
with a unique 4S pathway allows the desulfurization without compromising the
quality of fuel. These specific microbes can be screened by the detection of
2-hydroxybiphenol (2-HBP) in desulfurizing mixture of dibenzothiophene (DBT). At 
present, colorimetric Gibb's assay is the most commonly employed screening method
which requires a specific reagent, i.e., 2,6-dichloroquninone-4-chloramide. In
the present study, a novel and simple spectrophotometric method was developed for
the detection of 2-HBP for screening purpose based on dual wavelength method. The
developed method facilitates the simultaneous analysis of DBT desulfurization and
2-HBP production in a sample by merely measuring the absorbance differences at
two specified wavelengths, i.e., ΔA (λ 320-λ 247) for DBT and ΔA (λ 286-λ 324)
for 2-HBP. The developed method was used to screen 57 microbes and two specific
desulfurizing microbes Bacillus flexus MS-5 and Bacillus cereus BR-31 were
selected based on 2-HBP production. The outcomes of developed method were
validated by HPLC analysis. The strains MS-5 and BR-31 were employed in
biodesulfurization and resulted in 54.88 ± 1.12% and 55.72 ± 1.32%
desulfurization of 1.0 mM DBT, respectively. The developed method for screening
of specific desulfurizing microbes does not require any specific reagent or
sophisticated instrument in spite of being quick and reliable. The microbes
selected by developed method exhibited excellent potential for biodesulfurization
of fuel.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-020-2138-1 
PMCID: PMC7054501 [Available on 2021-04-01]
PMID: 32181115 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that they
have no conflict of interest.

