
1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2019 Dec 15;185:109679. doi:
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2019.109679. Epub 2019 Sep 21.

Composition change and adsorption performance of EPS from Bacillus vallismortis
sp. induced by Na2S.

Li Q(1), Song W(2), Sun M(1), Li J(1), Yu Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Environmental Science and Engineering of Guangdong University of
Technology, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510006, China.
(2)School of Environmental Science and Engineering of Guangdong University of
Technology, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510006, China. Electronic address:
weifengsong@gdut.edu.cn.

Sodium sulfide (Na2S) was used as an inducer to regulate the components of
Bacillus vallismortis sp. EPS (Extracellular Polymeric Substances). The main
objective of this study was to improve the content of sulfhydryl protein and the 
adsorption property of EPS to Zn (Ⅱ) that as an typical heavy metal. The results 
showed that the maximum EPS production of 105.58 mg/g VSS coupling with doubled
increase in protein in which the contant of -SH increased by 48.2% from 104.15 to
154.36 μmol/L were recorded in the presence of 20 mg/L Na2S. Under this
condition, the adsorption capacity of S-EPS (EPS with added exogenous Na2S) for
Zn (Ⅱ) was highest. The kinetics of the adsorption process of Zn (Ⅱ) by the S-EPS
can be well fitted by the Langmuir isotherm model and the theoretical maximum
adsorption amount of 979.09 mg/g EPS could be obtained. The results of 3D-EEM and
FTIR analyses, illustrated that -SH, CO, and N-H/C-N played major roles in the
removal of Zn (Ⅱ) by S-EPS. The results obtained in this study demonstrated that 
the addition of sulfur source could increase the content of sulfhydryl protein,
and effectively regulate the content of chemical composition, expecially for the 
sulfhydryl of EPS, and thereby greatly improving the removal efficiency of heavy 
metals, which showed a great application prospect in the prevention and control
of heavy metal pollution.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2019.109679 
PMID: 31550564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

