
1. Pest Manag Sci. 2020 Nov;76(11):3587-3595. doi: 10.1002/ps.5892. Epub 2020 Jun 3.

Larvicidal and histopathological efficacy of inhabitant pathogenic bacterial
strains to reduce the dengue vector competence.

Rajagopal G(1), Jeyavani J(1), Ilango S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, Ayya Nadar Janaki Ammal College, Sivakasi, India.

BACKGROUND: Aedes aegypti is a primary vector of dengue virus, and the causative 
agent of dengue is emerging globally as one of the most important arboviral
diseases currently threatening human populations. Therefore, vector control is
presently the primary intervention method of population reduction, in which
natural A. aegypti populations would be reduced with inhabitant bacterial strains
that are unable to transmit dengue virus.
RESULT: Based on the pathogenicity of strains, only four isolates effectively
show larvicidal activity. The 16S rRNA gene sequences and the phylogeny depicted 
that the potential isolates were Bacillus firmus (MK791255), Bacillus
paramycoides (MK788268), Bacillus siamensis (MK788212), and Bacillus
licheniformis (MK791256). After 24 and 48 hours exposure, the B. licheniformis
strain (cell mass of 2.2 × 107 CFU mL-1 ) showed potent larvicidal activity with 
LC50 of 16.22 μg mL-1 and 9.57 μg mL-1 and the B. paramycoides (cell mass of
3.1 × 107 CFU mL-1 ) strain inhibits the larval and pupal development with LC50
of 42.62 μg mL-1 and 26.97 μg mL-1 . Intermittent stages and causes of abscess in
the gut and siphon regions were observed through histopathological studies. These
two bacterial strains extend larval duration up to 15-16 days as well as reduce
development.
CONCLUSION: These studies demonstrate the challenge for dengue vector in reducing
developmental and reproduction competence. © 2020 Society of Chemical Industry.

© 2020 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/ps.5892 
PMID: 32400956 

