
1. Saudi J Biol Sci. 2020 May;27(5):1403-1411. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2019.11.031. Epub
2019 Nov 29.

Characterization and antifungal activity of the yellow pigment produced by a
Bacillus sp. DBS4 isolated from the lichen Dirinaria agealita.

Dawoud TM(1), Alharbi NS(1), Theruvinthalakal AM(2), Thekkangil A(2), Kadaikunnan
S(1), Khaled JM(1), Almanaa TN(1), Sankar K(2), Innasimuthu GM(2), Alanzi KF(1), 
Rajaram SK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Science, King Saud
University, P.O. Box 2455, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Kamaraj College of Engineering and Technology,
K.Vellakulam - 625 701, Madurai, Tamil Nadu, India.

This study emphasis the production of yellow pigment from endolichenic Bacillus
sp. isolated from the lichen Dirinaria aegialita (Afzel. ex Ach.) B.J. Moore.
Yellow pigment-producing twenty different strains were investigated. The
hyperactive pigment-producing bacterial strain was identified as Bacillus
gibsonii based on 99 % sequence similarity. Maximum bacterial pigment production 
appeared in Luria Bertani medium. Methanol extraction of the pigment and its
partial purification using TLC was carried out. Furthermore, isolated pigments
were characterized using UV-visible spectroscopy, FTIR spectroscopy, and GC-MS
results related to the possibility of the carotenoid occurrence. The pigment also
exhibited efficient antifungal activity against selected fungal pathogens of
economic importance. Likewise, the pigment extract evaluated for the total
antioxidant potential using Phosphomolybdenum and Ferric reducing antioxidant
power assay and the results represented in Ascorbic Acid Equivalent (AAE)-
21.45 ± 1.212 mg/mL. The SC50 of the pigment extract found to be
75.125 ± 0.18 µg/ml determined by the ABTS assay.

© 2019 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2019.11.031 
PMCID: PMC7182979
PMID: 32346353 

