
1. Microbiol Res. 2020 Oct;239:126518. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126518. Epub 2020 
Jun 2.

Plant Growth-Promoting Bacillus sp. Cahoots Moisture Stress Alleviation in Rice
Genotypes by Triggering Antioxidant Defense System.

Narayanasamy S(1), Thangappan S(1), Uthandi S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biocatalysts lab., Department of Agricultural Microbiology, Tamil Nadu
Agricultural University, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Biocatalysts lab., Department of Agricultural Microbiology, Tamil Nadu
Agricultural University, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, India. Electronic address:
usivakumartnau@gmail.com.

Drought is considered one of the major obstacles for agricultural productivity
worldwide such that greater efforts are required to boost crop production under
this stress. One of the methods to overcome this obstacle is to harness the
potential of microbe-induced systemic tolerance against moisture stress. The
present work evaluated the potential role of two bacterial strains, namely
Bacillus altitudinis FD48 and Bacillus methylotrophicus RABA6 and their
combination as a co-inoculant for promoting plant growth and moisture stress
resilience in two contrast cultivars of Oryza sativa L: CO51 (moderately drought 
tolerant) and IR64 (drought susceptible) under conditions of terminal moisture
stress. B. altitudinis FD48- and B. methylotrophicus-primed rice seeds (CO51 and 
IR64) significantly influenced the source-sink relationship and reduced the
relative water content (RWC). While photosynthetic pigments and proline showed a 
steady increase owing to the co-inoculant priming, the activity of reactive
oxygen species (ROS)-quenching enzymes, such as catalase, superoxide dismutase,
ascorbate peroxidase, and peroxidase constitutively increased in plants treated
with co-inoculant besides,reducing the trend during the recovery phase. The
productive tillers and grain weight were further augmented by the co-inoculant
under induced moisture stress. Moreover, the results revealed a 14% and 19%
increase in the harvest index (HI) in CO51 and IR64, respectively, attenuated
with Bacillus sp. as a co-inoculant. The key mechanism in augmenting energy
metabolism by B. altitudinis FD48 and B. methylotrophicus RABA6 could be
attributed to the regulation of ROS-quenching enzymes that aid in moisture stress
resilience. The results of the present study conclude that these strains may be
used as a novel bioinoculant for enhancing the drought tolerance in rice grown
under moisture stress regimes.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126518 
PMID: 32604045 

