
1. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2020 Oct 1. doi: 10.1007/s12602-020-09707-x.
[Epub ahead of print]

Impact of Supplements on Enhanced Activity of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens BmB1
Against Pythium aphanidermatum Through Lipopeptide Modulation.

Ravi A(1), Rajan S(1), Khalid NK(2), Jose MS(1), Aravindakumar CT(2)(3),
Krishnankutty RE(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biosciences, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, Kerala, 686560,
India.
(2)School of Environmental Sciences, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, Kerala,
India.
(3)Inter University Instrumentation Centre, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, 
Kerala, India.
(4)School of Biosciences, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, Kerala, 686560,
India. radhakrishnanek@mgu.ac.in.

The present study has been designed to improve the activity of endophytic
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens BmB1 against Pythium aphanidermatum through the
culture supplementation with carbon sources, nitrogen sources and zinc oxide
nanoparticles (ZnONPs). From the results of the study, supplementation with
glucose (45 g/L), yeast extract (7.5 g/L) and ZnONPs (5 mg/L) were found to
enhance the antifungal activity of B. amyloliquefaciens BmB1. This was also
confirmed by comparative statistical analysis with experimental control. Further 
LC-Q-TOF-MS analysis of extracts of B. amyloliquefaciens BmB1 cultured with
supplements showed a remarkable modulation of its lipopeptide profile. The blend 
of lipopeptides enhanced during the culture supplementation of B.
amyloliquefaciens BmB1 as evidenced by the mass spectrometric analysis can
consider to be the basis of its increased activity against P. aphanidermatum. As 
Bacillus spp. are well known for their biocontrol activities, the results of the 
study offer ways to improve its agricultural applications.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-020-09707-x 
PMID: 33000419 

