
1. PLoS One. 2020 Sep 21;15(9):e0239080. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0239080.
eCollection 2020.

Comparative study of protease hydrolysis reaction demonstrating Normalized
Peptide Bond Cleavage Frequency and Protease Substrate Broadness Index.

Yu S(1), Bech Thoegersen J(1), Kragh KM(1).

Author information: 
(1)DuPont Nutrition & Biosciences, Brabrand, Aarhus, Denmark.

Two commercial proteases (subtilisin-typed FNA from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens,
and chymotrypsin-like NPP from Nocardiopsis prasina), porcine pepsin, porcine
pancreatin having protease activity and their combinations were studied in vitro 
by LC-MS for their ability to digest soy protein isolate (SPI) under conditions
close to those found in the stomach (pH 3.7) and small intestine (pH 6.5). The
total number of peptides generated, and their size distribution were obtained
under each set of the digestion conditions. These peptides were grouped according
to their C-terminal amino acid (AA) residue (P1) and mass, based on which two
concepts were proposed, i.e., Normalized Peptide Bond Cleavage Frequency (NPBCF) 
and Protease Substrate Broadness Index (PSBI). At pH 3.7, FNA+pepsin increased
PSBI vs. pepsin alone by 2.7 and 4.9 percentage points (p.p.) at a SPI:protease
ratio of 20:1 and 100:1, respectively. At pH 6.5, FNA+pancreatin improved PSBI by
9.1 and 10.2 p.p. at SPI:protease 20:1 and 100:1, respectively, vs. pancreatin
alone. NPP generated 38% more peptides than FNA when administered with pancreatin
at SPI:protease 200:1:1 and pH 6.5, but FNA alone (28.9) or FNA+pancreatin (29.1)
gave a higher PSBI than pancreatin (22.2), NPP (20.3) and NPP+pancreatin (22.0). 
At pH 3.7 FNA generated 59% and 39% of peptides of pepsin at SPI:protease of 20:1
and 100:1, respectively, and both groups of peptides had similar size
distribution. At pH 6.5 more small sized peptides were generated by FNA or
FNA+pancreatin than pancreatin and NPP alone or pancreatin+NPP. In conclusion,
FNA showed complementary effects with pepsin and pancreatin in terms of PSBI and 
generated more small sized peptides compared to NPP.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0239080 
PMCID: PMC7505449
PMID: 32956384 

Conflict of interest statement: E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company provided
support in the form of R&D budget for all authors. This does not alter our
adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials. The protease FNA
and soy protein isolate Supro 760 described in the “M&M” section are commercial
products provided by DuPont for this research. There are no patents, products in 
development or other marketed products associated with this research to be
declared.

