
1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2020 May;194:110374. doi: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.110374.
Epub 2020 Feb 28.

Root exudates-driven rhizosphere recruitment of the plant growth-promoting
rhizobacterium Bacillus flexus KLBMP 4941 and its growth-promoting effect on the 
coastal halophyte Limonium sinense under salt stress.

Xiong YW(1), Li XW(1), Wang TT(1), Gong Y(1), Zhang CM(1), Xing K(1), Qin S(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Key Laboratory of Biotechnology for Medicinal Plants of Jiangsu Province, 
School of Life Science, Jiangsu Normal University, Xuzhou, Jiangsu, 221116, PR
China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Biotechnology for Medicinal Plants of Jiangsu Province, 
School of Life Science, Jiangsu Normal University, Xuzhou, Jiangsu, 221116, PR
China. Electronic address: shengqin@jsnu.edu.cn.

Halophytes play an important role in the bioremediation of saline soils.
Increased evidence has revealed that plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) 
have colonized the halophytic rhizosphere, and they have evolved the capacity to 
reduce salt stress damage to the host. However, the mechanism by which halophytes
attract and recruit beneficial PGPR has rarely been reported. This study reports 
the interaction between the halophyte Limonium sinense and its rhizosphere PGPR
strain Bacillus flexus KLBMP 4941, as well as the mechanism by which KLBMP 4941
promotes host plant growth under salt stress. After salt stress treatment, we
collected the root exudates (REs) of L. sinense and found that the REs could
promote the growth and chemotaxis of the bacterium KLBMP 4941. In addition, the
components of the REs under salt stress were analyzed, and some organic acids
(2-methylbutyric acid, stearic acid, palmitic acid, palmitoleic acid, and oleic
acid) were detected as the major components. Further assessment showed that each 
of these components had positive effects on the growth, motility, chemotaxis, and
root colonization of strain KLBMP 4941. Further pot experiments revealed the
potential PGP mechanisms induced by strain KLBMP 4941 on the host plant under
salt stress. Inoculation with KLBMP 4941 promoted the accumulation of chlorophyll
to enhance photosynthesis, increased osmotic regulator contents, enhanced
flavonoid and antioxidant enzymes, and regulated Na+/K+ homeostasis to help the
host ameliorate salinity stress damage. Our findings indicate that the halophyte 
L. sinense can attract and recruit beneficial rhizosphere bacteria by REs under
salt stress, and the recruited B. flexus KLBMP 4941 elicited PGP effects under
salinity stress through complex plant physiological regulatory mechanisms. This
study provides a foundation for the enhancement of the rhizosphere colonization
ability of the PGP strain KLBMP 4941, which shows potential applications in
phytoremediation of saline soils.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.110374 
PMID: 32120174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no conflict of interest.

