
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Mar 12;11:337. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00337. eCollection
2020.

New Insights into Detection of a Dendrobine Compound From a Novel Endophytic
Trichoderma longibrachiatum Strain and Its Toxicity Against Phytopathogenic
Bacteria.

Sarsaiya S(1)(2)(3), Jain A(1)(2), Fan X(4), Jia Q(3), Xu Q(4), Shu F(3), Zhou
Q(3), Shi J(1), Chen J(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Basic Pharmacology of Ministry of Education, Zunyi Medical
University, Zunyi, China.
(2)Joint International Research Laboratory of Ethnomedicine of Ministry of
Education, Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, China.
(3)Bioresource Institute for Healthy Utilization, Zunyi Medical University,
Zunyi, China.
(4)College of Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech
University, Nanjing, China.

Dendrobium nobile is the only plant that could produce the natural bioactive
dendrobine. No other source of dendrobine has been found to date except from D.
nobile and via chemical synthesis. In this study, we aimed to examine the
potential fungal endophyte isolated from D. nobile stem segments using the
molecular method and to detect dendrobine compound through high-performance
liquid chromatography (HPLC), gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), and
liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and their
metabolite for their antibacterial activity. The potential dendrobine producer
strain was recognized as Trichoderma longibrachiatum based on molecular DNA
sequencing and GenBank databases. The T. longibrachiatum MD33 produced dendrobine
and other compounds in a potato dextrose medium (PDM), as confirmed by HPLC
retention time peak analysis. The HPLC results revealed that T. longibrachiatum
MD33 biomass showed a peak retention time of 5.28 ± 0.2 min, similar to wild D.
nobile stem dendrobine (5.32 ± 0.2 min) and standard chemical reference
dendrobine (5.30 ± 0.2 min), indicating the presence of dendrobine in the fungal 
biomass. Results of GC-MS and LC-MS analysis revealed that T. longibrachiatum
MD33 produced the same molecular weight (263 in GC-MS and 264.195 in LC-MS) of
dendrobine as compared with standard chemical reference dendrobine and D. nobile 
dendrobine. Antibacterial activity data revealed that T. longibrachiatum MD33
produced the strongest bactericidal activity against Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus 
mycoides, and Staphylococcus species, and the diameter of the bacterial growth
inhibition zone was 12 ± 0.2, 9 ± 0.2, and 8 ± 0.2 mm, respectively. To the best 
of our knowledge, this was the first study to investigate T. longibrachiatum as a
dendrobine producer, and the results revealed that T. longibrachiatum was
directly involved in the potential production of a similar bioactive compound to 
D. nobile (dendrobine). In addition, the T. longibrachiatum metabolite exhibited 
potent antibacterial activity and can be a potential strain for medical and
industrial purposes.

Copyright © 2020 Sarsaiya, Jain, Fan, Jia, Xu, Shu, Zhou, Shi and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00337 
PMCID: PMC7080861
PMID: 32226418 

