
1. J Biotechnol. 2020 Jul 30;323:42-53. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.07.021. [Epub
ahead of print]

Bioprospecting of a novel endophytic Bacillus velezensis FZ06 from leaves of
Camellia assamica: Production of three groups of lipopeptides and the inhibition 
against food spoilage microorganisms.

Li FZ(1), Zeng YJ(2), Zong MH(1), Yang JG(3), Lou WY(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Applied Biocatalysis, School of Food Science and Engineering,
South China University of Technology, No. 381 Wushan Road, Guangzhou, 510640,
Guangdong, China.
(2)Laboratory of Applied Biocatalysis, School of Food Science and Engineering,
South China University of Technology, No. 381 Wushan Road, Guangzhou, 510640,
Guangdong, China; College of Life Science & Technology, Southwest Minzu
University, No. 16 South 4th Section of First Ring Road, Chengdu, 610041,
Sichuan, China.
(3)South China Institute of Collaborative Innovation, Xincheng Road, Dongguan,
523808, China.
(4)Laboratory of Applied Biocatalysis, School of Food Science and Engineering,
South China University of Technology, No. 381 Wushan Road, Guangzhou, 510640,
Guangdong, China; South China Institute of Collaborative Innovation, Xincheng
Road, Dongguan, 523808, China. Electronic address: wylou@scut.edu.cn.

Food contamination caused by microorganisms has become a threat to consumers'
health. Exploring antagonistic endophytes from plants of food raw-material and
applying bioactive metabolites to inhibit the contamination has been an
alternative and safer solution. In this study, we isolated and screened potential
antagonistic endophytes from fresh Camellia assamica leaves, which were widely
used in tea beverage production. We focused on a strain that showed visible
inhibitory activity to Gram-positive bacteria, Gram-negative bacteria, and fungi.
It was identified as a member of Bacillus velezensis and named FZ06. The results 
of genome analysis showed the strain FZ06 had 167 single-copy specific genes,
much higher than those of most related strains. Also, 11 potential gene clusters 
of antimicrobial metabolites were found. Three groups of lipopeptides (surfactin,
iturin, and fengycin) were identified by UPLC-MS/MS in purified antimicrobial
methanol fraction of strain FZ06. The results of minimum inhibitory concentration
(MIC) test proved the lipopeptide extract showed significant inhibitory effect on
food spoilage bacteria (MIC 512-2048 μg/mL) and toxigenic fungi (MIC
128-256 μg/mL). In conclusion, this study suggests that the endophytic B.
velezensis FZ06 and its lipopeptide extract hold great potential applications in 
the inhibition of food spoilage bacteria and toxic fungi in food industry.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.07.021 
PMID: 32739396 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no conflict of interest.

