
1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Jul 15;726:138568. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.138568. 
Epub 2020 Apr 8.

Use of resistant Rhizoctonia cerealis strains to control wheat sharp eyespot
using organically developed pig manure fertilizer.

Xu Y(1), Li X(2), Cong C(1), Gong G(1), Xu Y(3), Che J(1), Hou F(4), Chen H(5),
Wang L(6).

Author information: 
(1)School of Bioengineering, Dalian University of Technology, No. 2 Linggong
Road, Hi-Tech Zone, Dalian 116024, China.
(2)School of Bioengineering, Dalian University of Technology, No. 2 Linggong
Road, Hi-Tech Zone, Dalian 116024, China; Center for Food Safety of Animal
Origin, Ministry of Education, No. 2 Linggong Road, Hi-Tech Zone, Dalian 116024, 
China; Xinjiang Western Animal Husbandry Co., Ltd, No. 29 Beisandonglu, Shihezi
832099, China.
(3)School of Bioengineering, Dalian University of Technology, No. 2 Linggong
Road, Hi-Tech Zone, Dalian 116024, China; Center for Food Safety of Animal
Origin, Ministry of Education, No. 2 Linggong Road, Hi-Tech Zone, Dalian 116024, 
China.
(4)Xinjiang Western Animal Husbandry Co., Ltd, No. 29 Beisandonglu, Shihezi
832099, China.
(5)Xinjiang Tianshan Military Reclamation and Animal Husbandry Co., Ltd, No. 19
Beisandonglu, Shihezi 832099, China.
(6)School of Bioengineering, Dalian University of Technology, No. 2 Linggong
Road, Hi-Tech Zone, Dalian 116024, China; Center for Food Safety of Animal
Origin, Ministry of Education, No. 2 Linggong Road, Hi-Tech Zone, Dalian 116024, 
China; Xinjiang Western Animal Husbandry Co., Ltd, No. 29 Beisandonglu, Shihezi
832099, China. Electronic address: wanglili@dlut.edu.cn.

The effects of Rhizoctonia cerealis resistant strains to control wheat sharp
eyespot in pig manure developed organic fertilizer were investigated. Organic
fertilizer was produced in a self-built aerated static composting box (0.37 m3)
and later assessed using values of temperature, moisture, pH, C/N ratio, nitrogen
transformation, fluvic- and humic acid composition and germination index.
Together, these assessments indicated that disposed pig manure could be
considered as a non-hazardous fertilizer. By adding R. cerealis resistant strains
(Bacillus flexus, B. amyloliquefaciens, B. amyloliquefaciens, B. licheniformis
and Paenibacillus sp.), we were successfully able to develop wheat sharp eyespot 
inhibiting bio-organic fertilizer. Our results showed that soil applied with
10 t/hm2 of the developed bio-organic fertilizer significantly improved the dry
weight of the wheat, promoted chlorophylls and soluble protein composition and
effectively prevented the wheat from sharp eyespot. The protection rate (77.1%)
of our developed bio-organic fertilizer is 42.3% higher than the tested
commercially available organic fertilizer (34.8%), and the disease index is
significantly lower (P < 0.001) than both the control and commercial organic
fertilizer. In conclusion, the prevention and control effects of our developed
bio-organic fertilizer on wheat sharp eyespot were both significant and
promising.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.138568 
PMID: 32305767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

