
1. J Biomol Struct Dyn. 2020 Mar 26:1-12. doi: 10.1080/07391102.2020.1745282. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Cloning, expression, homology modelling and molecular dynamics simulation of four
domain-containing α-amylase from Streptomyces griseus.

Lakshmi SA(1), Shafreen RB(1), Balaji K(1), Ibrahim KS(2), Shiburaj S(3),
Gayathri V(3), Pandian SK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Alagappa University, Karaikudi, Tamil Nadu,
India.
(2)PG and Research Department of Botany, PSG College of Arts & Science,
Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)Division of Microbiology, Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and
Research Institute, Palode, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India.

In the present study, α-amylase from Streptomyces griseus TBG19NRA1 was
amplified, cloned and successfully expressed in E. coli BL21/DE3. Sequence
analysis of S. griseus α-amylase (SGAmy) revealed the presence of four domains
(A, B, C and E). Alpha-amylases with E domain (also known as carbohydrate binding
module 20 (CBM20)) are capable of degrading raw starch and this property holds
great potential for application in starch processing industries. Though α-amylase
is a well-studied and characterized enzyme, there is no experimental structure
available for this four domain-containing α-amylases. To gain more insight about 
SGAmy structure and function, homology modelling was performed using a
multi-template method. The template α-amylase from Pseudoalteromonas haloplanktis
(PDB ID 1AQH) and E domain of Cyclodextrin glucanotransferase from Bacillus
circulans (PDB ID 1CGY) was found to have significant similarity with the
complete target sequence of SGAmy. Therefore, homology model for SGAmy was
generated from the crystal structure of 1AQH and 1CGY and the resulting structure
was subjected to 10 ns molecular dynamics (MD) simulation. Remarkably, CBM20
domain of SGAmy showed greater flexibility in MD simulation than other three
domains. This observation is highly rational as this part of SGAmy is strongly
implicated in substrate (raw starch) binding. Thus, conformational plasticity at 
CBM20 is functionally beneficial.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2020.1745282 
PMID: 32193988 

