
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Sep 23. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02207-9. [Epub ahead of
print]

Effect of Chemical Fertilization on the Impacts of Plant Growth-Promoting
Rhizobacteria in Maize Crops.

Nascimento FC(1), Kandasamy S(2), Lazarovits G(2), Rigobelo EC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Production, Graduate Program in Agricultural and Livestock
Microbiology, São Paulo State University (UNESP), School of Agricultural and
Veterinarian Sciences, Access Way Prof. Paulo Donato Castellane, Jaboticabal,
14884-900, Brazil.
(2)A & L Biologicals, Agroecological Research Service Center, London, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Plant Production, Graduate Program in Agricultural and Livestock
Microbiology, São Paulo State University (UNESP), School of Agricultural and
Veterinarian Sciences, Access Way Prof. Paulo Donato Castellane, Jaboticabal,
14884-900, Brazil. everlon.cid@unesp.br.

The use of chemical fertilizers strongly promotes productivity in agricultural
crops; therefore, large amounts of chemical fertilizers have been used. The use
of plant growth-promoting bacteria may be a strategy to reduce the use of
chemical fertilizers; however, little is known about the effect of chemical
fertilization on the performance of these bacteria through plant-microbe
interactions. The present study aimed to verify the performance of Bacillus
subtilis, Azospirillum brasilense, B. pumilus, B. amyloliquefaciens,
Herbaspirillum seropedicae, Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus, and the mixtures A.
brasilense + B. subtilis, B. pumilus + B. amyloliquefaciens, and H.
seropedicae + G. diazotrophicus on parameters such as nitrogen and phosphorus
extraction from soil, the concentrations of these nutrients in maize plants, and 
plant growth in both fertilized and unfertilized soil. The results showed that H.
seropedica increased the nitrogen content by 6.6 g kg-1 in leaves and 2.2 g kg-1 
in the root when comparing the unfertilized with the fertilized condition. G.
diazotrophicus increased the nitrogen content by 3.7 g kg-1 in leaves and
2.4 g kg-1 in the root. B. pumilus increased the phosphorous content by
1.7 g kg-1 in leaves, and B. amyloliquefaciens increased the phosphorous content 
by 0.61 g kg-1. The present study showed that even though the bacteria presented 
good performance related to plant growth under fertilized conditions, H.
seropedicae, G. diazotrophicus, B. pumilus, and B. amyloliquefaciens could be
used in the maize crop with a reduced chemical fertilization dose.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02207-9 
PMID: 32965535 

