
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Aug;202(6):1477-1488. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-01851-w. Epub 
2020 Mar 20.

Marine bacteria associated with shallow hydrothermal systems in the Gulf of
California with the capacity to produce biofilm inhibiting compounds.

Gutiérrez-Almada K(1), González-Acosta B(1), Borges-Souza JM(1), Aguila-Ramírez
RN(2).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Politécnico Nacional-Centro Interdisciplinario de Ciencias Marinas, 
Av. Instituto Politécnico Nacional S/N. Col. Playa Palo de Santa Rita, C.P.
23069, La Paz, Baja California Sur, México.
(2)Instituto Politécnico Nacional-Centro Interdisciplinario de Ciencias Marinas, 
Av. Instituto Politécnico Nacional S/N. Col. Playa Palo de Santa Rita, C.P.
23069, La Paz, Baja California Sur, México. raguilar@ipn.mx.

Shallow hydrothermal systems are extreme environments. The sediments and fluids
emitted from the vents present unusual physical and chemical conditions compared 
to other marine areas, which promotes unique biodiversity that has been of great 
interest for biotechnology for some years. In this work, a bioprospective study
was carried out to evaluate the capacity of bacteria associated with shallow
hydrothermal vents to produce biofilm-inhibiting compounds. Degradation assays of
N-acyl homoserine lactone (AHL) autoinducers (C6HSL) involved in the quorum
sensing process were carried out on 161 strains of bacteria isolated from three
shallow hydrothermal systems located in Baja California Sur (BCS), Mexico. The
biosensor Chromobacterium violaceum CV026 was used. Twenty-three strains showed
activity, and organic extracts were obtained with ethyl acetate. The potential of
the extracts to inhibit the formation of biofilms was tested against two human
pathogenic strains (Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 and Aeromonas caviae ScH3), a
shrimp pathogen (Vibrio parahaemolyticus M8), and two marine strains identified
as producing biofilms on submerged surfaces (Virgibacillus sp C29 and Vibrio
alginolyticus C96). The results showed that Vibrio alginolyticus and
Brevibacillus thermoruber, as well as some thermotolerant strains (mostly
Bacillus), produce compounds that inhibit bacterial biofilms (B. licheniformis,
B. paralicheniformis, B. firmus, B. oceanizedimenis, B. aerius and B.
sonorensis).

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-01851-w 
PMID: 32193579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

