
1. Int J Microbiol. 2020 Sep 14;2020:3750948. doi: 10.1155/2020/3750948. eCollection
2020.

Genotypic Profiling of Bacillus cereus Recovered from Some Retail Foods in Ogun
State, Nigeria, and Their Phylogenetic Relationship.

Adesetan TO(1)(2), Efuntoye MO(1), Babalola OO(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Olabisi Onabanjo University, PMB 2002, Ago-Iwoye, 
Ogun State, Nigeria.
(2)Food Security and Safety Niche, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural Sciences, 
North-West University, Private Bag X2046, Mmabatho 2735, South Africa.

Identifying Bacillus cereus with conventional methods is neither specific nor
rapid because of the close relatedness of the B. cereus group, hence the need for
molecular methods. Genotypic profiling of B. cereus isolates from food was
obtained by Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA-polymerase chain reaction (RAPD-PCR)
using OPR13 primer. A dendrogram was drawn with the Numerical Taxonomy System of 
Statistic (NTSYS) software. Thirty of the isolates were subjected to molecular
identification by 16S rDNA sequencing. The thirty sequences were deposited in
GenBank for accession number. Phylogenetic relationship of the 16S rDNA sequence 
obtained was carried out with the Multiple Alignment using Fast Fourier Transform
(MAFFT) software version 7.0. The evolutionary tree was drawn using the Molecular
Evolutionary Genetics Analysis (MEGA 6) software. The dendrogram generated for
the RAPD profile showed that all the strains are closely related, with a
similarity coefficient of 70%. The isolates were confirmed with 16S rDNA
sequencing as B. cereus. The thirty sequences deposited in GenBank were given
accession numbers: KX574760-KX574769, KX610811-KX610820, MT757957-MT757963, and
MT772282-MT772284. By comparing the phylogenetic relationship, eleven of the
strains did not cluster with the reference strains from the GenBank but form
distinct clades, which means they are likely to be of different ancestors.
Conventional methods rarely differentiate bacteria of the same species into
clade, neither can it describe their ancestral lineage. Therefore, it is
important to employ molecular methods in identifying bacteria to give detailed
information about them.

Copyright Â© 2020 Titilayo O. Adesetan et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/3750948 
PMCID: PMC7509558
PMID: 33005193 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts
of interest regarding the publication of this paper.

