
1. Environ Res. 2020 Sep 6;191:110142. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2020.110142. [Epub
ahead of print]

Green synthesis of silver nanoparticles transformed synthetic textile dye into
less toxic intermediate molecules through LC-MS analysis and treated the actual
wastewater.

Ahmed T(1), Noman M(1), Shahid M(2), Niazi MBK(3), Hussain S(4), Manzoor N(5),
Wang X(6), Li B(7).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Rice Biology and Ministry of Agriculture Key
Laboratory of Molecular Biology of Crop Pathogens and Insects, Institute of
Biotechnology, Zhejiang University, 310058, Hangzhou, China; Department of
Bioinformatics and Biotechnology, Government College University, Faisalabad,
38000, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Bioinformatics and Biotechnology, Government College University,
Faisalabad, 38000, Pakistan. Electronic address: mshahid@gcuf.edu.pk.
(3)School of Chemical and Materials Engineering (SCME), National University of
Sciences & Technology (NUST), Sector H-12, 44000, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Environmental Science & Engineering, Government College
University, Faisalabad, 38000, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Soil and Water Sciences, China Agricultural University, Beijing,
100193, China.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Rice Biology and Ministry of Agriculture Key
Laboratory of Molecular Biology of Crop Pathogens and Insects, Institute of
Biotechnology, Zhejiang University, 310058, Hangzhou, China.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Rice Biology and Ministry of Agriculture Key
Laboratory of Molecular Biology of Crop Pathogens and Insects, Institute of
Biotechnology, Zhejiang University, 310058, Hangzhou, China. Electronic address: 
libin0571@zju.edu.cn.

The illegal disposal of waste from textile industries having recalcitrant
pollutants is a worldwide problem with more severity in developing nations. We
used an ecofriendly method to synthesize silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) from a
locally-isolated bacterial strain Bacillus marisflavi TEZ7 and employed them as
photocatalysts to degrade not only synthetic azo dyes but also actual textile
effluents followed by phytotoxicity evaluation and identification of degradation 
molecules. The strain TEZ7 was taxonomically identified through the 16S rRNA gene
sequence analysis. Biogenic AgNPs were characterized for stabilizing molecules,
crystal structure, size, shape and elemental composition by Fourier transform
infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis, transmission
electron microscopy (TEM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and energy
dispersive spectroscopy (EDS), respectively. The photocatalytic degradation
efficiency of biogenic AgNPs for three azo dyes such as Direct Blue-1, Methyl
Red, and Reactive Black-5 ranged between 54.14 and 96.92% after 5 h of sunlight
exposure at a concentration of 100 mg/L. Moreover, the actual wastewater
treatment analysis revealed that the 100 mg/L dose of AgNPs significantly
decreased the concentration of various physico-chemical parameters of textile
effluents such as pH, EC, chlorides, sulphates, hardness, BOD, COD, TSS and TDS. 
Furthermore, six intermediate molecules of methyl red degradation were identified
by LC-MS and it was established by a pot study that these degradation molecules
have no phytotoxic effects on rice plants. It was concluded that the AgNPs can be
used as an efficient and low-cost strategy for the degradation of azo dyes
containing textile wastewaters.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2020.110142 
PMID: 32898565 

