
1. Mol Microbiol. 2019 Nov;112(5):1552-1563. doi: 10.1111/mmi.14379. Epub 2019 Sep
22.

Disruption of the OLE ribonucleoprotein complex causes magnesium toxicity in
Bacillus halodurans.

Harris KA(1)(2), Odzer NB(2), Breaker RR(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, Yale University, 
New Haven, CT, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, New
Haven, CT, USA.

OLE RNAs represent an unusual class of bacterial noncoding RNAs common in
Gram-positive anaerobes. The OLE RNA of the alkaliphile Bacillus halodurans is
highly expressed and naturally interacts with at least two RNA-binding proteins
called OapA and OapB. The phenotypes of the corresponding knockouts include
growth inhibition when exposed to ethanol or other short-chain alcohols or when
incubated at modestly reduced temperatures (e.g. 20°C). Intriguingly, the OapA
'PM1' mutant, which carries two amino acid changes to a highly conserved region, 
yields a dominant-negative phenotype that causes more severe growth defects under
these same stress conditions. Herein, we report that the PM1 strain also exhibits
extreme sensitivity to elevated Mg2+ concentrations, beginning as low as 2 mM.
Suppressor mutants predominantly map to genes for aconitate hydratase and
isocitrate dehydrogenase, which are expected to alter cellular citrate
concentrations. Citrate reduces the severity of the Mg2+ toxicity phenotype, but 
neither the genomic mutations nor the addition of citrate to the medium overcomes
ethanol toxicity or temperature sensitivity. These findings reveal that OLE RNA
and its protein partners are involved in biochemical responses under several
stress conditions, wherein the unusual sensitivity to Mg2+ can be independently
suppressed by specific genomic mutations.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mmi.14379 
PMCID: PMC6842403 [Available on 2020-11-01]
PMID: 31461569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

