
1. Microbiol Res. 2020 Sep 18;242:126594. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126594. [Epub
ahead of print]

Improving hybrid Pennisetum growth and cadmium phytoremediation potential by
using Bacillus megaterium BM18-2 spores as biofertilizer.

Kamal N(1), Liu Z(2), Qian C(3), Wu J(4), Zhong X(5).

Author information: 
(1)National Forage Breeding Innovation Base (JAAS), Nanjing, 210014, PR China;
Institute of Animal Science, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Nanjing,
210014, PR China; Botany and Microbiology Department, Faculty of Science, Suez
University, Suez, Egypt. Electronic address: nero_micro@yahoo.com.
(2)National Forage Breeding Innovation Base (JAAS), Nanjing, 210014, PR China;
Institute of Animal Science, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Nanjing,
210014, PR China; Key Laboratory for Crop and Animal Integrated Farming of
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Nanjing, 210014, PR China. Electronic 
address: liuzhiweiwin2008@126.com.
(3)National Forage Breeding Innovation Base (JAAS), Nanjing, 210014, PR China;
Institute of Animal Science, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Nanjing,
210014, PR China; Key Laboratory for Crop and Animal Integrated Farming of
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Nanjing, 210014, PR China. Electronic 
address: Chenqian611@aliyun.com.
(4)National Forage Breeding Innovation Base (JAAS), Nanjing, 210014, PR China;
Institute of Animal Science, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Nanjing,
210014, PR China; Key Laboratory for Crop and Animal Integrated Farming of
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Nanjing, 210014, PR China. Electronic 
address: jzwu2014@jaas.ac.cn.
(5)National Forage Breeding Innovation Base (JAAS), Nanjing, 210014, PR China;
Institute of Animal Science, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Nanjing,
210014, PR China; Key Laboratory for Crop and Animal Integrated Farming of
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Nanjing, 210014, PR China. Electronic 
address: xiaoxian@jaas.ac.cn.

Environmental pollution with heavy metals becomes an issue of serious concern
worldwide. Cadmium is considered one which adversely affects living organisms.
Recently, the usage of endophytic bacteria to enhance the plant growth and
phytoremediation of heavy metals contaminated sites is gaining great attention.
The current study focused on utilizing the spores of Bacillus megaterium BM18-2
as biofertilizer for enhancing the growth of Cd hyperaccumulator Hybrid
Pennisetum and Cd tolerance of the plant. Therefore, the production of the
highest proportion of BM18-2 spores in short incubation time was investigated
using different culture media. The results revealed that the maximum proportion
of BM18-2 spores (90%) was obtained following incubation for 48 h in Tryptone-
yeast extract media (TY). Furthermore, several growth parameters of H. Pennisetum
were shown to be significantly improved by inclusion of BM18-2 spores into Cd
contaminated soil in contrast to non- inoculated plant. The chlorophyll
concentration of the leaves rose by 5%, 13%, and 22.89% with increasing Cd
concentration of soil (20, 40 and 60 mg/Kg, respectively). The percentage of
total nitrogen content of the root, stem and leaf was increased due to the
bacterial spores inoculation and the highest percentage was recorded in the leaf 
in all treatments. Moreover, Cd phytoremediation capacity of H. Pennisetum
greatly enhanced with the application of BM18-2 spores into the soil. An obvious 
correlation was also observed between Cd accumulation and bacterial colonization 
where the Cd accumulation enhanced by 21.9%, 16.5%, and 94.6% and the maximum
count of BM18-2 (27 × 105, 194 × 104,and 145 × 104 CFU/g) were recorded in the
root system in 20, 40, and 60 mg/Kg Cd spiked soil, respectively. Consequently,
the spores of BM18-2 was proven to succeed as biofertilizer to improve growth of 
H. pennisetum during Cd stress which subsequently improved the phytoremediation
of Cd contaminated soil.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126594 
PMID: 33007635 

