
1. Biodegradation. 2020 Oct 3. doi: 10.1007/s10532-020-09915-w. [Epub ahead of
print]

Biotransformation of pentachlorophenol by an indigenous Bacillus cereus AOA-CPS1 
isolated from wastewater effluent in Durban, South Africa.

Aregbesola OA(1), Mokoena MP(1), Olaniran AO(2).

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Microbiology, School of Life Sciences, College of Agriculture,
Engineering and Science, University of KwaZulu-Natal (Westville Campus), Private 
Bag X54001, Durban, 4000, Republic of South Africa.
(2)Discipline of Microbiology, School of Life Sciences, College of Agriculture,
Engineering and Science, University of KwaZulu-Natal (Westville Campus), Private 
Bag X54001, Durban, 4000, Republic of South Africa. olanirana@ukzn.ac.za.

Pentachlorophenol (PCP) is a recalcitrant biocide that bioaccumulates in the
environment due to its persistent nature and has been listed as a priority
pollutant due to its toxicological and health effects. In this study, a novel
PCP-degrading Bacillus cereus strain AOA-CPS1 (BcAOA) was isolated from
wastewater and characterized for PCP biotransformation in a batch reactor. The
degradation kinetics were elucidated via substrate inhibition models, while PCP
biotransformation was established by spectrophotometric and GC-MS analysis. BcAOA
shared 95% sequence homology with Bacillus cereus strain XS2 and is closely
related to some B. cereus strains which are previously reported to degrade PCP
and other related pollutants. BcAOA degraded 74% of 350 mg l-1 of PCP within 9
days in a batch culture. The biotransformation of PCP by BcAOA followed the first
and zero-order kinetics at low and high PCP concentration, respectively, with
biokinetic constants: maximum biotransformation rate (0.0996 mg l-1 h-1);
substrate inhibition constant (723.75 mg l-1); half-saturation constant
(171.198 mg l-1) and R2 (0.98). The genes (pcpABCDE, cytochrome P450) encoding
the enzymes involved in the biodegradation of PCP were amplified from the genomic
DNA of BcAOA. Further, depending upon the genes amplified and identified
metabolites using GC-MS, two different PCP biotransformation pathways were
proposed in this study. Cloning and expression of the catabolic genes are
underway to map out the concise pathway for PCP biotransformation by BcAOA.

DOI: 10.1007/s10532-020-09915-w 
PMID: 33011889 

