
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Oct;77(10):2602-2612. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02031-1. Epub 
2020 May 20.

Biodegradation of Butachlor by Bacillus altitudinis and Identification of
Metabolites.

Kaur R(1), Goyal D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology
(Deemed to be University), Patiala, Punjab, 147001, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology
(Deemed to be University), Patiala, Punjab, 147001, India. dgoyal@thapar.edu.

Butachlor is a chloroacetamide pre-emergence herbicide, with a half-life of 1.6
to 29 days. It is a suspected carcinogen, genotoxin, neurotoxin and persists in
the environment having toxic effect on living systems. Butachlor degrading
bacterial strain A16 was isolated from coal tar contaminated soil, which showed
99.38% similarity with Bacillus altitudinis 41KF2bT as revealed by 16S rRNA
analysis. B. altitudinis strain A16 utilised butachlor as a sole source of carbon
and degraded 90% of 50 mg L-1 butachlor in 5 days at a rate constant and
half-life (t1/2) of 0.02 h-1 and 34.65 h, respectively, following the first-order
reaction kinetics. Five metabolites
(N-(butoxymethyl)-N-(2-chloroethyl)-2,6-diethylaniline,
(N-(butoxymethyl)-2-chloro-N-(2-ethylphenyl) acetamide,
N-(butoxymethyl)-2,6-diethyl-N-propylaniline, 2-chloro-N-(2,6-diethylphenyl)
acetamide and 2,6-diethylaniline) were produced during the breakdown of butachlor
by B. altitudinis A16 as identified by GC-MS analysis, which are further
mineralized to carbon dioxide and water. A metabolic pathway is proposed and
compared with other bacteria. The findings have immense beneficial application
since such microbes can be used on large scale for faster soil bioremediation and
minimizing negative impact of pesticide butachlor on health and environment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02031-1 
PMID: 32435881 

