
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2019 Dec 11;20(24). pii: E6244. doi: 10.3390/ijms20246244.

Cloning and Partial Characterization of an Endo-α-(1→6)-d-Mannanase Gene from
Bacillus circulans.

Angala SK(1), Li W(1), Palčeková Z(1), Zou L(2), Lowary TL(2), McNeil MR(1),
Jackson M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mycobacteria Research Laboratories, Department of Microbiology, Immunology and
Pathology, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523-1682, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, The University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2G2,
Canada.

Mycobacteria produce two major lipoglycans, lipomannan (LM) and lipoarabinomannan
(LAM), whose broad array of biological activities are tightly related to the fine
details of their structure. However, the heterogeneity of these molecules in
terms of internal and terminal covalent modifications and complex internal
branching patterns represent significant obstacles to their structural
characterization. Previously, an endo-α-(1→6)-D-mannanase from Bacillus circulans
proved useful in cleaving the mannan backbone of LM and LAM, allowing the
reducing end of these molecules to be identified as Manp-(1→6) [Manp-(1→2)]-Ino. 
Although first reported 45 years ago, no easily accessible form of this enzyme
was available to the research community, a fact that may in part be explained by 
a lack of knowledge of its complete gene sequence. Here, we report on the
successful cloning of the complete endo-α-(1→6)-D-mannanase gene from Bacillus
circulans TN-31, herein referred to as emn. We further report on the successful
production and purification of the glycosyl hydrolase domain of this enzyme and
its use to gain further insight into its substrate specificity using synthetic
mannoside acceptors as well as LM and phosphatidyl-myo-inositol mannoside
precursors purified from mycobacteria.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms20246244 
PMCID: PMC6940960
PMID: 31835712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

