
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Sep 22. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02208-8. [Epub ahead of
print]

Potential Plant Growth-Promoting Bacteria with Heavy Metal Resistance.

Efe D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Espiye Vocational School, Giresun
University, 28000, Giresun, Turkey. mail.derya.efe@gmail.com.

Plant growth-promoting (PGP) bacteria commonly have many strategies to cope with 
heavy metal toxicity. Heavy metal-resistant PGP bacteria can be used to improve
the growth of plants in heavy metal contaminated soils. In this study, the soil
samples were collected from the lead-zinc mineral deposits in Gümüşhane Province,
Turkey. Nine bacterial isolates were obtained on the nutrient agar medium
supplemented with 100 mg/mL zinc and lead. All of the isolates were screened in
terms of plant growth-promoting characteristics including production of
indole-3-acetic acid and siderophore, nitrogen fixation and phosphate
solubilisation. Nine bacteria were identified as Bacillus cereus, Bacillus
atrophaeus, Bacillus pumilus, Bacillus amyloliquefaciens, Bacillus tropicus,
Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus halotolerans, Bacillus vallismortis, and Enterococcus
mundtii by classical and 16S rDNA-PCR assays. In addition, these isolates were
evaluated for their response to three heavy metals (lead, zinc, copper) dominant 
in the soil samples and minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) of the heavy
metals was determined with plate dilution method. Consequently, the bacterial
isolates in this study possess plant growth-promoting traits and can ameliorate
heavy metal contaminated soil. E. mundtii was reported to be found in heavy metal
contaminated soil for the first time. This study is the first report about PGP
characteristics (IAA production and phosphate solubilisation) of B. vallismortis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02208-8 
PMID: 32960302 

