
1. Sci Total Environ. 2019 Oct 15;687:577-589. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.06.077.
Epub 2019 Jun 7.

Arsenite biotransformation by Rhodococcus sp.: Characterization, optimization
using response surface methodology and mechanistic studies.

Kumari N(1), Rana A(1), Jagadevan S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of
Technology (Indian School of Mines), Dhanbad, Jharkhand 826004, India.
(2)Department of Environmental Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of
Technology (Indian School of Mines), Dhanbad, Jharkhand 826004, India. Electronic
address: sheejaj@iitism.ac.in.

Erratum in
    Sci Total Environ. 2020 Jul 1;724:138612.

Comment in
    Sci Total Environ. 2020 Apr 10;712:135748.

A large population of the world is under increased health risk due to consumption
of arsenic contaminated groundwater. The present study investigates the arsenic
resistance and arsenic biotransforming ability in three bacterial species, namely
Bacillus arsenicus, Rhodococcus sp. and Alcaligenes faecalis for employing them
in potential groundwater bioremediation programmes. The tolerance to pH levels
for the 3 organisms are 6-9 for A. faecalis, 5-10 for Rhodococcus and 5-9 for B. 
arsenicus. The arsenic bio-oxidation capacity was qualitatively confirmed by
using the silver nitrate method and all three bacteria were able to convert
arsenite to arsenate. The arsenite tolerance capacity (MIC values) were found to 
be 3 mM, 7 mM and 12 mM for B. arsenicus, A. faecalis and Rhodococcus sp.
respectively. The changes in cellular morphology of these strains under various
arsenic stress conditions were studied using advanced cell imaging techniques
such as scanning electron microscopy and Atomic Force Microscopy. Rhodococcus sp.
emerged as a potential candidate for bioremediation application. A response
surface methodology was employed to optimize key parameters affecting arsenic
removal (pH, Iron (II) soluble, concentration of humic acid and initial arsenic
concentration) and at optimized conditions, experimental runs demonstrated 48.34%
removal of As (III) (initial concentration = 500 μg/L) in a duration of 6 h, with
complete removal after 48 h. Evidences from this work indicate that arsenic
removal occurs through bioaccumulation, biotransformation and biosorption. The
present study makes the first attempt to investigate the arsenic removal
capability of Rhodococcus sp. in synthetic groundwater by employing bacterial
whole cell assays. This study also sheds light on the arsenic tolerance and
detoxification mechanisms employed by these bacteria, knowledge of which could be
crucial in the successful implementation of in-situ bioremediation programmes.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.06.077 
PMID: 31216511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

