
1. Crit Rev Biochem Mol Biol. 2020 Oct 2:1-13. doi: 10.1080/10409238.2020.1828261.
[Epub ahead of print]

NusG-dependent RNA polymerase pausing is a frequent function of this universally 
conserved transcription elongation factor.

Yakhnin AV(1), Kashlev M(1), Babitzke P(2).

Author information: 
(1)NCI RNA Biology Laboratory, Center for Cancer Research, NCI, Frederick, MD,
USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Center for RNA Molecular
Biology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, USA.

Although transcription by RNA polymerase (RNAP) is highly processive, elongation 
can be transiently halted by RNAP pausing. Pausing provides time for diverse
regulatory events to occur such as RNA folding and regulatory factor binding. The
transcription elongation factors NusA and NusG dramatically affect the frequency 
and duration of RNAP pausing, and hence regulation of transcription. NusG is the 
only transcription factor conserved in all three domains of life; its homolog in 
archaea and eukaryotes is Spt5. This review focuses on NusG-dependent pausing,
which is a common occurrence in Bacillus subtilis. B. NusG induces pausing about 
once per 3â€‰kb at a consensus TTNTTT motif in the non-template DNA strand within
the paused transcription bubble. A conserved region of NusG contacts the TTNTTT
motif to stabilize the paused transcription elongation complex (TEC) in multiple 
catalytically inactive RNAP conformations. The density of NusG-dependent pause
sites is 3-fold higher in untranslated regions, suggesting that pausing could
regulate the expression of hundreds of genes in B. subtilis. We describe how
pausing in 5' leader regions contributes to regulating the expression of B.
subtilis genes by transcription attenuation and translation control mechanisms.
As opposed to the broadly accepted view that NusG is an anti-pausing factor,
phylogenetic analyses suggest that NusG-dependent pausing is a widespread
mechanism in bacteria. This function of NusG is consistent with the
well-established role of its eukaryotic homolog Spt5 in promoter-proximal
pausing. Since NusG is present in all domains of life, NusG-dependent pausing
could be a conserved mechanism in all organisms.

DOI: 10.1080/10409238.2020.1828261 
PMID: 33003953 

