
1. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2019 Nov 28;29(11):1777-1789. doi:
10.4014/jmb.1903.03062.

Endophytic Bacteria Improve Root Traits, Biomass and Yield of Helianthus
tuberosus L. under Normal and Deficit Water Conditions.

Namwongsa J(1), Jogloy S(2), Vorasoot N(2), Boonlue S(1), Riddech N(1),
Mongkolthanaruk W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Khon Kaen University, Khon
Kaen, 40002, Thailand.
(2)Department of Plant Science and Agricultural Resources, Faculty of
Agriculture, Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen, 40002, Thailand.

Drought is more concerned to be a huge problem for agriculture as it affects
plant growth and yield. Endophytic bacteria act as plant growth promoting
bacteria that have roles for improving plant growth under stress conditions. The 
properties of four strains of endophytic bacteria were determined under water
deficit medium with 20% polyethylene glycol. Bacillus aquimaris strain 3.13
showed high 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase production;
Micrococcus luteus strain 4.43 produced indole acetic acid (IAA).
Exopolysaccharide production was high in Bacillus methylotrophicus strain 5.18
while Bacillus sp. strain 5.2 did not show major properties for drought response.
Inoculation of endophytic bacteria into plants, strain 3.13 and 4.43 increased
height, shoot and root weight, root length, root diameter, root volume, root area
and root surface of Jerusalem artichoke grown under water limitation, clearly
shown in water supply at 1/3 of available water. These increases were caused by
bacteria ACC deaminase and IAA production; moreover, strain 4.43 boosted leaf
area and chlorophyll levels, leading to increased photosynthesis under drought at
60 days of planting. The harvest index was high in the treatment with strain 4.43
and 3.13 under 1/3 of available water, promoting tuber numbers and tuber weight. 
Inulin content was unchanged in the control between well-watered and drought
conditions. In comparison, inulin levels were higher in the endophytic bacteria
treatment under both conditions, although yields dipped under drought. Thus, the 
endophytic bacteria promoted in plant growth and yield under drought; they had
outstanding function in the enhancement of inulin content under wellwatered
condition.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1903.03062 
PMID: 31546292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

