
1. J Appl Genet. 2019 Nov;60(3-4):427-430. doi: 10.1007/s13353-019-00512-z. Epub
2019 Aug 12.

Comparison of aminotransferases of three Bacillus strains Bacillus altitudinis
W3, Bacillus velezensis SYBC H47, and Bacillus amyloliquefaciens YP6 via genome
analysis and bioinformatics.

Zhai L(1), Ren R(1), Meng D(1), Tian Q(1), Guan Z(1), Cai Y(2), Liao X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, China.
yjcai@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, 214122, Jiangsu, China.
13771104596@163.com.

Aminotransferases have attracted considerable attention due to their
extraordinary potential for the biosynthesis of chiral amines. Research on
transaminase genes can facilitate their application to various fields. Herein, 89
putative aminotransferase genes potentially encoding useful biocatalysts were
identified in three Bacillus strains genomes by genome annotation. Enzymes
encoded by genes ota3, ota8, otae6, otae21, otaf1, otaf8, and otaf26 belong to
pyridoxine 5'-phosphate-dependent enzyme class IV. These seven ω-aminotransferase
genes are highly conserved according to phylogenetic tree and bioinformatics
analyses, as are the putative lysine catalytic residues in the corresponding
enzymes (ω-BPTA 1-7). The enzymes may possess similar activity to
ω-aminotransferases from Arthrobacter sp. KNK 168. The potential application of
these novel enzymes for the synthesis of medicinal amino compounds will be
explored in future genetic engineering studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s13353-019-00512-z 
PMID: 31407219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

