
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Dec;92:103558. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103558. Epub 2020 Jun 
6.

Induced resistance in nectarine fruit by Bacillus licheniformis W10 for the
control of brown rot caused by Monilinia fructicola.

Ji ZL(1), Peng S(1), Zhu W(1), Dong JP(1), Zhu F(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Horticulture and Plant Protection, Joint International Research
Laboratory of Agriculture and Agri-Product Safety of Ministry of Education of
China, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, Jiangsu, 225009, China.
(2)College of Horticulture and Plant Protection, Joint International Research
Laboratory of Agriculture and Agri-Product Safety of Ministry of Education of
China, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, Jiangsu, 225009, China. Electronic address:
zhufeng@yzu.edu.cn.

Brown rot caused by Monilinia fructicola has led to considerable preharvest and
postharvest losses in all major nectarine fruit-growing areas. In our previous
study, we successfully identified a biocontrol strain of bacteria, Bacillus
licheniformis W10, that can be used to control brown rot. However, the possible
mechanism of the control of brown rot by B. licheniformis W10 is still unclear.
Therefore, the objectives of this study were to determine whether B.
licheniformis W10 induces resistance by activating defense-related enzymes
including antioxidant enzymes in nectarine. Treatment of nectarine fruit with B. 
licheniformis W10 reduced both M. fructicola-induced oxidative damage and
reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Furthermore, application of B.
licheniformis to nectarine fruit resulted in a signiﬁcant increase in the
activity of antioxidant and defense-related enzymes and increase in the
expression of the corresponding genes. Overall, our results veriﬁed the proposed 
mechanism of B. licheniformis W10 in controlling M. fructicola via regulation of 
ROS levels and activation of antioxidant and defense-related enzymes.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103558 
PMID: 32950152 

