
1. Toxins (Basel). 2020 Sep 16;12(9). pii: E600. doi: 10.3390/toxins12090600.

Making 3D-Cry Toxin Mutants: Much More Than a Tool of Understanding Toxins
Mechanism of Action.

VÃ­lchez S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
I, Faculty of Science, University of Granada, 18071 Granada, Spain.

3D-Cry toxins, produced by the entomopathogenic bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis,
have been extensively mutated in order to elucidate their elegant and complex
mechanism of action necessary to kill susceptible insects. Together with the
study of the resistant insects, 3D-Cry toxin mutants represent one of the pillars
to understanding how these toxins exert their activity on their host. The
principle is simple, if an amino acid is involved and essential in the mechanism 
of action, when substituted, the activity of the toxin will be diminished.
However, some of the constructed 3D-Cry toxin mutants have shown an enhanced
activity against their target insects compared to the parental toxins, suggesting
that it is possible to produce novel versions of the natural toxins with an
improved performance in the laboratory. In this report, all mutants with an
enhanced activity obtained by accident in mutagenesis studies, together with all 
the variants obtained by rational design or by directed mutagenesis, were
compiled. A description of the improved mutants was made considering their
historical context and the parallel development of the protein engineering
techniques that have been used to obtain them. This report demonstrates that
artificial 3D-Cry toxins made in laboratories are a real alternative to natural
toxins.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins12090600 
PMID: 32948025 

