
1. PLoS One. 2020 Aug 12;15(8):e0236745. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0236745.
eCollection 2020.

Microbially induced calcite precipitation using Bacillus velezensis with guar
gum.

Dikshit R(1), Jain A(1), Dey A(2), Kumar A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, 
India.
(2)Thermal Systems Group, U. R. Rao Satellite Centre (formerly ISRO Satellite
Centre), Indian Space Research Organisation, Bangalore, India.

Mineral precipitation via microbial activity is a well-known process with
applications in various fields. This relevance of microbially induced calcite
precipitation (MICP) has pushed researchers to explore various naturally
occurring MICP capable bacterial strains. The present study was performed to
explore the efficiency of microbially induced calcite precipitation (MICP) via
locally isolated bacterial strains and role of guar gum, which is a naturally
occurring polymer, on the MICP process. The strains were isolated from local soil
and screened for urease activity Further, the urease positive strain was
subjected to urea and calcium chloride based medium to investigate the efficacy
of isolated strain for microbial induced precipitation. Among screened isolates, 
the soil bacterium that showed urease positive behaviour and precipitated calcium
carbonate was subjected to 16S rRNA gene sequencing. This strain was identified
as Bacillus velezensis. Guar gum-a natural polymer, was used as a sole carbon
source to enhance the MICP process. It was observed that the isolated strain was 
able to breakdown the guar gum into simple sugars resulting in two-fold increase 
in calcium carbonate precipitate. Major bio-chemical activities of isolated
strain pertaining to MICP such as ammonium ion concentration, pH profiling, and
total reducing sugar with time were explored under four different concentrations 
of guar gum (0.25%, 0.5%, 0.75% and 1% w/v). Maximum ammonium ion concentration
(17.5 Î¼g/ml) and increased pH was observed with 1% guar gum supplementation,
which confirms augmented MICP activity of the bacterial strain. Microstructural
analysis of microbial precipitation was performed using scanning electron
microscopy (SEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) techniques, which confirmed the
presence of calcium carbonate in different phases. Further, XRD and SEM based
studies corroborated that guar gum supplemented media showed significant increase
in stable calcite phase as compared to media without guar gum supplementation.
Significant diverse group of nitrogenous compounds were observed in guar gum
supplemented medium when subjected to Gas Chromatography-Mass spectrometry
(GC-MS) profiling.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0236745 
PMCID: PMC7423064
PMID: 32785276 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

