
1. 3 Biotech. 2020 Jul;10(7):323. doi: 10.1007/s13205-020-02321-2. Epub 2020 Jun 29.

Improving the catalytic thermostability of Bacillus altitudinis W3 ω-transaminase
by proline substitutions.

Xie Z(#)(1), Zhai L(1), Meng D(1), Tian Q(1), Guan Z(1), Cai Y(1), Liao X(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, 214122 Jiangsu PR
China.
(#)Contributed equally

As a green biocatalyst, transaminase with high thermostability can be better
employed to synthesize many pharmaceutical intermediates in industry. To improve 
the thermostability of (R)-selective amine transaminase from Bacillus altitudinis
W3, related mutation sites were determined by multiple amino acid sequence
alignment between wild-type ω-transaminase and four potential thermophilic
ω-transaminases, followed by replacement of the related amino acid residues with 
proline by site-directed mutagenesis. Three stabilized mutants (D192P, T237P, and
D192P/T237P) showing the highest stability were obtained and used for further
analysis. Comparison with the wild-type enzyme revealed that the double mutant
D192P/T237P exhibited the largest shift in thermostability, with a 2.5-fold
improvement of t 1/2 at 40 °C, and a 6.3 °C increase in T 50 15, and a 5 °C
higher optimal catalytic temperature. Additionally, this mutant exhibited an
increase in catalytic efficiency (k cat/K m) relative to the wild-type enzyme.
Modeling analysis indicated that the improved thermostability of the mutants
could be associated with newly formed hydrophobic interactions and hydrogen
bonds. This study shown that proline substitutions guided by sequence alignment
to improve the thermostability of (R)-selective amine transaminase was effective 
and this method can also be used to engineering other enzymes.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-020-02321-2 
PMCID: PMC7324462 [Available on 2021-07-01]
PMID: 32656056 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that they
have no conflict of interest.

