
1. Bioelectrochemistry. 2019 Dec;130:107329. doi: 10.1016/j.bioelechem.2019.107329. 
Epub 2019 Jul 11.

Chitin biomass powered microbial fuel cell for electricity production using
halophilic Bacillus circulans BBL03 isolated from sea salt harvesting area.

Gurav R(1), Bhatia SK(2), Choi TR(1), Jung HR(1), Yang SY(1), Song HS(1), Park
YL(1), Han YH(1), Park JY(1), Kim YG(3), Choi KY(4), Yang YH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Engineering, College of Engineering, Konkuk
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biological Engineering, College of Engineering, Konkuk
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea; Institute for Ubiquitous Information
Technology and Applications (CBRU), Konkuk University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, Soongsil University, Seoul, Republic of
Korea.
(4)Department of Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering, Ajou
University, Suwon, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Biological Engineering, College of Engineering, Konkuk
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea; Institute for Ubiquitous Information
Technology and Applications (CBRU), Konkuk University, Seoul, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: seokor@konkuk.ac.kr.

Incessant depletion of non-renewable energy sources has gained attention to
search for new biological systems to transform organic biomass into electricity
using microbial fuel cell (MFC). The main approach of the existing study was to
develop a single step process to produce electrical energy from underutilized
chitin biomass. Halophilic bacterium Bacillus circulans BBL03 isolated from
anodic biofilm showed higher electricity production (26.508 μAcm2) in a natural
seawater medium fed with 1.0% chitin. Maximum chitinase activity
(94.24 ± 4.2 U mL-1) and N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) production
(136.30 ± 2.8 mg g-1 chitin) were achieved at 48 h. Prominent metabolites
detected in chitin hydrolysis were lactate, formate, acetate, propionate, and
butyrate. Furthermore, cyclic voltammetry (CV) studies revealed the possibility
of direct electron transfer by anodic biofilm to anode without any external redox
mediators. Polarization and coulombic efficiency (CE) analysis showed maximum
power density (PD) 1.742 mWcm2 and 47% CE using 1% chitin as a substrate.
Alteration in crystallinity and functional group on chitin were analysed using
FTIR and XRD. Therefore, natural seawater-chitin powered MFCs could be a cheap
asset for longer electricity production.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioelechem.2019.107329 
PMID: 31325898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

