
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Aug 29. pii: S0141-8130(20)34302-6. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.08.205. [Epub ahead of print]

Molecular analysis of Bacillus velezensis KB 2216, purification and biochemical
characterization of alpha-amylase.

Bhatt K(1), Lal S(2), Srinivasan R(3), Joshi B(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Bundelkhand University, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh
284128, India. Electronic address: kandarpbhatt22@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Bundelkhand University, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh
284128, India.
(3)Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh 284003, 
India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Saurashtra University, Rajkot, Gujarat 
360005, India.

Alpha-amylase producing strain KB 2216 was identified as Bacillus velezensis. The
growth pattern showed that 72 h is the optimum incubation period of amylase
production, which is a stationary period for the strain. By the purification
process, maximum alpha-amylase activity was achieved up to 418.25 U/mL at 72 h of
incubation, which was purified with 4.74 folds, 4230.32 U/mg specific activity,
with 31.35% yield. The strain was found to produce an oligomeric alpha-amylase,
namely Amy3. Amy3 was a trimeric macromolecule of 195 kDa with 62, 64, and 66 kDa
subunits, as revealed by zymogram and SDS PAGE analyses. Amy3 was highly active
at 55 °C and pH 5.5. It had shown the highest stability at pH 5.0-5.5 and between
0 ̊C and 4 ̊C. It did not require any metal cofactors, but it was inhibited by
Ag2+, Hg2+ and Cd2+ divalent cations. Glucose and maltose were shown to be the
end products of soluble starch digestion by Amy3. These interesting properties of
Amy3 may be useful for many biotechnological applications in the future.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.08.205 
PMID: 32871125 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no conflict of interest.

