
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Aug 2. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-02004-9. [Epub ahead of
print]

Antimicrobial effect of spore-forming probiotics Bacillus laterosporus and
Bacillus megaterium against Listeria monocytogenes.

Rajabi S(1), Darban D(2), Tabatabaei RR(1), Hosseini F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Islamic Azad University, Tehran North Branch,
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Iran University of Medical
Science, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Islamic Azad University, Tehran North Branch,
Tehran, Iran. Farzaneh953@yahoo.com.

There are several reports on the detection of Listeria monocytogenes in Iran,
which has been identified as a major public health problem. In addition, due to
drug resistance and strong biofilm formation of this pathogen, new approaches
such as using probiotics are needed to combat this bacterium. The aim of this
study was to investigate the effect of spore-forming probiotics on the expression
of virulence genes hly, plc, inlA, and invasion of L. monocytogenes.
Spore-forming probiotics were co-cultured with L. monocytogenes at different time
points and following cell count, the expression level of virulence genes of L.
monocytogenes was assessed by real-time PCR. To investigate the effect of the
isolated strains on the invasiveness of L. monocytogenes at different time
points, HT-29 cell line was used. Sporulated probiotics reduced the growth of L. 
monocytogenes in broth medium at different time periods. The number of L.
monocytogenes co-cultured with Bacillus laterosporus decreased by 1, 3, 3, and 6 
log at 2, 4, 8 and 24Â h after treatment, respectively. In addition, the
expression of virulence genes was decreased at different time points and the
expression of hly and plcA genes was more affected. The invasion rate of L.
monocytogenes on HT-29 cells was decreased by 1 to 6 log at different time
points. Both probiotic strains inhibited bacterial growth at different time
points; however, more sensitive methods should be established for an accurate
assessment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-02004-9 
PMID: 32743669 

