
1. Physiol Mol Biol Plants. 2019 Nov;25(6):1483-1495. doi:
10.1007/s12298-019-00710-3. Epub 2019 Sep 28.

Resource partitioning in the rhizosphere by inoculated Bacillus spp. towards
growth stimulation of wheat and suppression of wild oat (Avena fatua L.) weed.

Dahiya A(1), Sharma R(1), Sindhu S(1), Sindhu SS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, CCS Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar,
Haryana 125004 India.

Common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) is one of the most important agricultural
crop, which provides direct source of food for humans. Besides abiotic stresses, 
weeds pose a significant challenge to successful crop production. Avena fatua
(wild oat) is one of the most common damaging grass weed, which causes 17-62%
losses in yield of winter wheat. Excessive use of herbicides to control wild oat 
has resulted in serious environmental and human health hazards. Therefore,
biological control of weeds is required to cope up with the increasing food
demand and to attain self-sustainability. In this study, eighty eight
rhizobacterial isolates were isolated from rhizosphere soil samples collected
from Rewari and Hisar districts. After screening of the isolates, only thirty
isolates showed in vitro antagonistic and herbicidal activities. The selected
antagonistic isolates were further tested for production of IAA and ALA, and
utilization of ACC. Bacterial isolates BWA18 and RWA52 produced 53.80 and
19.18 ug ml-1 IAA, respectively and high ALA production was shown by isolates
HCA3 and RCA3. Five isolates i.e., BWA20, BWA23, BWA29, BWA38 and RCA3 showed
significant ACC utilization. Inoculation of selected bacterial isolates BWA18,
RWA69 and SYB101 showed significant increase in root dry weight (RDW) and shoot
dry weight (SDW) of wheat plants under pot house conditions, and decreased RDW
and SDW of A. fatua weed as compared to RDF-amended uninoculated soil at 25 DAS
(days after sowing). Bacterial isolates RWA69 and SYB101 caused significant
increase in RDW and SDW of wheat growth at 50 DAS, whereas their inoculation
decreased RDW and SDW of A. fatua. Thus, seed bacterization with bacterial
isolates RWA52, RWA69 and SYB101 caused significant increase in RDW and SDW of
wheat, whereas their inoculation caused significant decrease in RDW and SDW of A.
fatua. The best performing bacterial isolates RWA52 and RWA69 were identified as 
Bacillus siamensis and Bacillus endophyticus using 16S rRNA analysis. The
promising rhizobacterial isolates could further be tested for the bioherbicidal
activity and plant growth promotion effects under field conditions before their
use as bioherbicides.

© Prof. H.S. Srivastava Foundation for Science and Society 2019.

DOI: 10.1007/s12298-019-00710-3 
PMCID: PMC6825098 [Available on 2020-11-01]
PMID: 31736550 

