
1. Avicenna J Med Biotechnol. 2020 Jul-Sep;12(3):186-193.

Bioactivity of Bac70 Produced by Bacillus atrophaeus Strain DDBCC70.

Sarjoughian MR(1), Abolmaali S(2), Darvish Alipour Astaneh S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Biotechnology, Semnan University,
Semnan, Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Basic Sciences, Semnan University, Semnan,
Iran.

Background: Recently, using antibacterial peptides has been considered as a
strategy to manage the worldwide antibiotic-resistance crisis. Screening of
Dasht-Desert Bacterial Culture Collection (DDBCC) for bacteriocin or
bacteriocin-like producer was aimed in this study to introduce native
antibacterial agent(s).
Methods: In this study, 170 isolates were examined by the cross-streak method
against G+ and G- indicators. Isolates with antimicrobial activity were compared 
using turbidity and well diffusion tests. The candidate isolate, DDBCC70, was
molecularly and biochemically characterized. Then, the production of an
antibacterial agent was physicochemically optimized. The supernatant was
saturated ammonium sulfate. SDS-PAGE and Thin-Layer Chromatography (TLC)
analyses, cytotoxicity, and hemagglutination tests were performed.
Results: First, 23 isolates were detected with antimicrobial activity against at 
least three of the indicator strains. DDBCC70 was distinguished with the
broad-spectrum of antibacterial effects of the Cell-Free Supernatants (CFSs). The
black pigments on BHI and a 98% similarity in 16S rDNA and similarity in
biochemical tests confirmed the strain of DDBCC70 as Bacillus atrophaeus (B.
atrophaeus). The highest amount of the antibacterial agent, Bac70, was obtained
from the modified brain heart infusion medium. It was revealed that 70% ammonium 
sulfate-saturated Bac70 was 3.8 and 1.6 times more effective on Pseudomonas
aeuroginosa (P. aeuroginosa) and Klebsiella pneumoniae (K. pneumoniae). Bac70, a 
>25 kDa protein and a safe compound for blood cells, neither agglutinated human
erythrocyte nor lysed sheep blood. The purified bacteriocin-like molecule
destroyed biofilms from P. aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus).
Moreover, the fraction of Bac70 from the TLC plate showed higher inhibitory
effects against K. pneumoniae.
Conclusion: Based on the above-mentioned features, Bac70 is a potential
alternative therapeutic agent in pharmaceutical, food preservative and
biotech-related industries.

CopyrightÂ© 2020 Avicenna Research Institute.


PMCID: PMC7368116
PMID: 32695282 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors have no
competing interest.

