
1. Int J Phytoremediation. 2020 Aug 5:1-11. doi: 10.1080/15226514.2020.1801572.
[Epub ahead of print]

Enhanced performance of Bacillus megaterium OSR-3 in combination with putrescine 
ammeliorated hydrocarbon stress in Nicotiana tabacum.

Tariq M(1), Shah AA(1), Yasin NA(2), Ahmad A(3), Rizwan M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Narowal, Narowal, Pakistan.
(2)Senior Superintendent Gardens, RO-II Office, University of the Punjab, Lahore,
Pakistan.
(3)Vegetable Research Institute, Guangdong Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Guangzhou, China.
(4)Department of Environmental Sciences and Engineering, Government College
University, Faisalabad, Pakistan.

Hydrocarbon stress (HS) has been causing decreased plant growth and productivity.
Putrescine (Put) and growth promoting microbes are vital for plant growth and
development under hydrocarbon stress. Current research work was carried out to
evaluate the potential of Bacillus megaterium OSR-3 alone and in combination with
Put to alleviate HS in Nicotiana tabacum (L.). The crude petroleum contaminated
soil significantly reduced growth attributes of N. tabacum. B. megaterium OSR-3
inoculated plants subjected to HS exhibited improved photosynthetic rate, gas
exchange characteristics, poline contents and protein level. Furthermore,
bacterial inoculation enhanced the antioxidative activity of superoxide dismutase
(SOD), catalase (CAT) and ascorbate peroxidase (APX) in tobacco plants subjected 
to HS. The HS alleviation in B. megaterium OSR-3 inoculated N. tabacum can be
credited to the heightened activity of antioxidative enzymes, reduction in
hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and abridged synthesis of malondialdehyde (MDA). The
increased synthesis of indole acetic acid (IAA) in HS stressed N. tabacum plants 
treated with co-application of B. megaterium OSR-3 and Put attenuated toxicity
and amplified growth of plants. Additionally, the co-application of B. megaterium
OSR-3 and Put also upregulated the activity of antioxidative enzymes and induced 
augmented level of proline and IAA in plants under HS regimes. Current research
provides novel insight into the potential and mechanism of B. megaterium OSR-3
and Put in mitigation of HS in N. tabacum plants.

DOI: 10.1080/15226514.2020.1801572 
PMID: 32755316 

