
1. J Hazard Mater. 2020 Jan 15;382:121084. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2019.121084. Epub 
2019 Aug 22.

Characterization of a robust cold-adapted and thermostable laccase from
Pycnoporus sp. SYBC-L10 with a strong ability for the degradation of tetracycline
and oxytetracycline by laccase-mediated oxidation.

Tian Q(1), Dou X(2), Huang L(2), Wang L(3), Meng D(2), Zhai L(2), Shen Y(4), You 
C(4), Guan Z(2), Liao X(5).

Author information: 
(1)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214122, PR 
China. Electronic address: qiaopengt@126.com.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214122, PR 
China.
(3)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214122, PR 
China; School of Life Science and Technology, Inner Mongolia University of
Science and Technology, Baotou, Inner Mongolia, 014010, PR China.
(4)School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu,
214122, PR China.
(5)The Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School 
of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214122, PR 
China. Electronic address: liaoxiangru@163.com.

A native laccase (Lac-Q) with robust cold-adapted and thermostable
characteristics from the white-rot fungus Pycnoporus sp. SYBC-L10 was purified,
characterized, and used in antibiotic treatments. Degradation experiments
revealed that Lac-Q at 10.0 U mL-1 coupled with 1.0 mmol L-1 ABTS could degrade
100% of the tetracycline or oxytetracycline (50 mg L-1) within 5 min with a
static incubation at 0 °C (pH 6.0). The presence of the Mn2+ ion inhibited the
removal rate of tetracycline and oxytetracycline by the Lac-Q-ABTS system, and
the presence of Al3+, Cu2+, and Fe3+ accelerated the removal rate of tetracycline
and oxytetracycline by the Lac-Q-ABTS system. Furthermore, the growth inhibition 
of Bacillus altitudinis SYBC hb4 and E. coli by tetracycline antibiotics revealed
that the antimicrobial activity was significantly reduced after treatment with
the Lac-Q-ABTS system. Finally, seven transformation products of oxytetracycline 
(namely TP 445, TP 431, TP 413, TP 399, TP 381, TP 367, and TP 351) were
identified during the Lac-Q-mediated oxidation process by using UPLC-MS/MS. A
possible degradation pathway including deamination, demethylation, and
dehydration was proposed. These results suggest that the Lac-Q-ABTS system shows 
a great potential for the treatment of antibiotic wastewater containing different
metal ions at various temperatures.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2019.121084 
PMID: 31473514 

