
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Sep 28;10(1):15830. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-72572-9.

Functional validation of DvABCB1 as a receptor of Cry3 toxins in western corn
rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera.

Niu X(1), Kassa A(2), Hasler J(2)(3), Griffin S(4), Perez-Ortega C(5), Procyk
L(2), Zhang J(2), Kapka-Kitzman DM(2), Nelson ME(6), Lu A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Corteva Agriscience, 7300 NW 62nd Ave., Johnston, IA, 50131, USA.
xiping.niu@corteva.com.
(2)Corteva Agriscience, 7300 NW 62nd Ave., Johnston, IA, 50131, USA.
(3), Danville, USA.
(4)Corteva Agriscience, 9330 Zionsville Rd, Indianapolis, IN, 46268, USA.
(5)Reaction Biology Corp, 1 Great Valley Pkwy Ste 2, Malvern, PA, 19355, USA.
(6)Corteva Agriscience, 7300 NW 62nd Ave., Johnston, IA, 50131, USA.
mark.e.nelson@corteva.com.

Western corn rootworm (WCR), Diabrotica virgifera virgifera (Coleoptera:
Chrysomelidae), is a serious insect pest in the major corn growing areas of North
America and in parts of Europe. WCR populations with resistance to Bacillus
thuringiensis (Bt) toxins utilized in commercial transgenic traits have been
reported, raising concerns over their continued efficacy in WCR management.
Understanding the modes of action of Bt toxins is important for WCR control and
resistance management. Although different classes of proteins have been
identified as Bt receptors for lepidopteran insects, identification of receptors 
in WCR has been limited with no reports of functional validation. Our results
demonstrate that heterologous expression of DvABCB1 in Sf9 and HEK293 cells
conferred sensitivity to the cytotoxic effects of Cry3A toxins. The result was
further validated using knockdown of DvABCB1 by RNAi which rendered WCR larvae
insensitive to a Cry3A toxin. However, silencing of DvABCB2 which is highly
homologous to DvABCB1 at the amino acid level, did not reduce the sensitivity of 
WCR larvae to a Cry3A toxin. Furthermore, our functional studies corroborate
different mode-of-actions for other insecticidal proteins including
Cry34Ab1/35Ab1, Cry6Aa1, and IPD072Aa against WCR. Finally, reduced expression
and alternatively spliced transcripts of DvABCB1 were identified in a
mCry3A-resistant strain of WCR. Our results provide the first clear demonstration
of a functional receptor in the molecular mechanism of Cry3A toxicity in WCR and 
confirmed its role in the mechanism of resistance in a mCry3A resistant strain of
WCR.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-72572-9 
PMCID: PMC7522262
PMID: 32985523 

