
1. Biotechnol Lett. 2020 Aug 6. doi: 10.1007/s10529-020-02980-4. [Epub ahead of
print]

Increasing the level of 4-vinylguaiacol in top-fermented wheat beer by secretory 
expression of ferulic acid decarboxylase from Bacillus pumilus in brewer's yeast.

Xu L(1)(2)(3), Zhang H(1), Cui Y(4), Zeng D(1), Bao X(5).

Author information: 
(1)College of Bioengineering, Key Laboratory of Shandong Microbial Engineering,
State Key Laboratory of Biobased Material and Green Papermaking, Qilu University 
of Technology, Shandong Academy of Sciences, Jinan, 250353, Shandong, China.
(2)Shandong Sunkeen Biological Company, 6789 Xingfuhe Road, Jining, 273517,
Shandong, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Technology, Institute of Microbial
Technology, Shandong University, 72 Binhai Road, Qingdao, 266237, Shandong,
China.
(4)College of Bioengineering, Key Laboratory of Shandong Microbial Engineering,
State Key Laboratory of Biobased Material and Green Papermaking, Qilu University 
of Technology, Shandong Academy of Sciences, Jinan, 250353, Shandong, China.
cuiyunqian@126.com.
(5)College of Bioengineering, Key Laboratory of Shandong Microbial Engineering,
State Key Laboratory of Biobased Material and Green Papermaking, Qilu University 
of Technology, Shandong Academy of Sciences, Jinan, 250353, Shandong, China.
baoxm@qlu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: The objective is to explore the effects of enhancing the activity of
yeast ferulic acid decarboxylase (FDC1) on the level of 4-vinylguaiacol (4-VG)
and the consumption of its precursor ferulic acid (FA) in top-fermented wheat
beer.
RESULTS: Expression of Bacillus pumilus FDC1 in brewer's yeast showed a better
effect on the FDC1 activity than overexpression of the endogenous enzyme. The
4-VG content was increased by 34%, and the consumption time of FA was shortened
from 48 to 12 h. Since the intracellular accumulation of the FDC1 substrate did
not increase over time, to reduce the FA transport burden on cells and shorten
the decarboxylation time, B. pumilus FDC1 was further secreted extracellularly.
The resulted strain showed a 65% increase in 4-VG content in the FA-containing
medium, and produced about 3 mg L-1 4-VG in the top-fermented wheat beer,
increasing by 61% than control. However, further increasing the secretory
expression level of FDC1 only accelerated FA consumption.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggested that appropriate secretion of bacterial FDC1
into wort could be used as a potential alternative strategy to increase the level
of 4-VG in top-fermented wheat beer.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-020-02980-4 
PMID: 32761466 

