
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Sep 28;165(Pt A):156-168. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.09.192. [Epub ahead of print]

Bacterial and oxidative control of local butter with smart/active film based on
pectin/nanoclay/Carum copticum essential oils/β-carotene.

Asdagh A(1), Pirsa S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Faculty of Agriculture, Urmia
University, P. O. Box, Urmia 5756151818, Iran.
(2)Department of Food Science and Technology, Faculty of Agriculture, Urmia
University, P. O. Box, Urmia 5756151818, Iran. Electronic address:
S.pirsa@urmia.ac.ir.

In this study, Pectin/Nanoclay (montmorillonite)/Carum copticum Essential
oils/β-Carotene (Pec/Clay/CCE/βC) composite film was prepared. The effect of
β-Carotene (βC) and Carum copticum Essential oils (CCE) concentration on the
antioxidant activity and color/mechanical properties of Pec/Clay/CCE/βC film was 
studied. The morphology and antibacterial activity of film were studied. The
films containing maximum essential oil and β-carotene showed the best
antibacterial activity, antioxidant activity, flexibility and firmness. So the
Pec/Clay/CCE0.5%/BC0.03% film as the optimum film was used for packaging of local
butter. Oxidative stability, microbial count, and color properties (L*, a* and
b*) of butter packaged with active film (Pec/Clay/CCE/βC) were investigated.
Results showed that Pec/Clay/CCE/βC film was effective against Bacillus cereus
(B. cereus) more than Escherichia coli (E. coli). According to the results active
packaged butter had the highest oxidative stability, lowest microbial load, and
the least color change during storage. In the packaging process, Pec/Clay/CCE/βC 
film color was changed from orange to light yellow and this color change was used
as a smart color indicator to detect the oxidation of butter and expiration time 
of butter.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.09.192 
PMID: 32998015 

