
1. Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces. 2020 Sep 19;197:111356. doi:
10.1016/j.colsurfb.2020.111356. [Epub ahead of print]

Study of biofilm-influenced corrosion on X80 pipeline steel by a nitrate-reducing
bacterium, Bacillus cereus, in artificial Beijing soil.

Liu B(1), Sun M(1), Lu F(1), Du C(2), Li X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Advanced Materials and Technology, University of Science and
Technology Beijing, Beijing, 100083, China; Key Laboratory for Corrosion and
Protection of Ministry of Education (MOE), Beijing, 100083, China.
(2)Institute for Advanced Materials and Technology, University of Science and
Technology Beijing, Beijing, 100083, China; Key Laboratory for Corrosion and
Protection of Ministry of Education (MOE), Beijing, 100083, China; Beijing
Advanced Innovation Center for Materials Genome Engineering, University of
Science and Technology Beijing, Beijing, 100083, China; National Materials
Corrosion and Protection Scientific Data Center, Institute of Advanced Materials 
and Technology, Beijing, 100083, China. Electronic address: dcw@ustb.edu.cn.
(3)Institute for Advanced Materials and Technology, University of Science and
Technology Beijing, Beijing, 100083, China; Key Laboratory for Corrosion and
Protection of Ministry of Education (MOE), Beijing, 100083, China; Beijing
Advanced Innovation Center for Materials Genome Engineering, University of
Science and Technology Beijing, Beijing, 100083, China; National Materials
Corrosion and Protection Scientific Data Center, Institute of Advanced Materials 
and Technology, Beijing, 100083, China.

The biofilm of Bacillus cereus on the surface of X80 pipeline steel was
investigated from forming to shedding. Based on the observed biofilm morphology
and pit analysis, it was found that B. cereus biofilm could stimulate X80
pipeline steel pitting corrosion, which was attributed to the nitrate reduction
of bacteria beneath the biofilm. Electrochemical measurements and general
corrosion rate results showed that B. cereus biofilm can better accelerate X80
pipeline steel corrosion compared to sterile solutions. Interestingly, the
results also showed that thick biofilms had a slight tendency to inhibit the
general corrosion process compared with its formation and exfoliation, which was 
confirmed by scanning Kelvin probe. The corrosion rate of X80 pipeline steel in
artificial Beijing soil is closely related to the state of the biofilm, and
nitrate reducing bacteria accelerates the occurrence of pits. The corresponding
corrosion mechanisms are proposed.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.colsurfb.2020.111356 
PMID: 33007505 

