
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Aug 28. pii: S0141-8130(20)34294-X. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.08.197. [Epub ahead of print]

Structural and biochemical characterization of an extremely thermostable
FMN-dependent NADH-indigo reductase from Bacillus smithii.

Yoneda K(1), Yoshioka M(2), Sakuraba H(3), Araki T(2), Ohshima T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioscience, School of Agriculture, Tokai University, 9-1-1
Toroku, Higashi-ku, Kumamoto-shi, Kumamoto 862-8652, Japan. Electronic address:
kyoneda@agri.u-tokai.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Bioscience, School of Agriculture, Tokai University, 9-1-1
Toroku, Higashi-ku, Kumamoto-shi, Kumamoto 862-8652, Japan.
(3)Department of Applied Biological Science, Faculty of Agriculture, Kagawa
University, 2393 Ikenobe, Miki-cho, Kita-gun, Kagawa 761-0795, Japan.
(4)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Osaka Institute 
of Technology, 5-16-1 Ohmiya, Asahi-ku, Osaka 535-8585, Japan.

The FMN-dependent NADH-indigo reductase gene from the thermophilic bacterium
Bacillus smithii was overexpressed in Escherichia coli. The expressed enzyme
functioned as a highly thermostable indigo reductase that retained complete
activity even after incubation at 100 °C for 10 min. Furthermore, B. smithii
indigo reductase exhibited high stability over a wider pH range and longer
storage periods compared with indigo reductases previously identified from other 
sources. The enzyme catalyzed the reduction of various azo compounds and indigo
carmine. The crystal structures of the wild-type enzyme in complex with
FMN/N-cyclohexyl-2-aminoethanesulfonate (CHES) and the Y151F mutant enzyme in
complex with FMN were determined by the molecular replacement method and refined 
at resolutions of 1.97 and 1.95 Å, respectively. Then, indigo carmine molecule
was modeled into the active site using the molecular docking simulation and the
binding mode of indigo carmine was elucidated. In addition, the structure of B.
smithii indigo reductase, which is relatively less stable Bacillus cohnii indigo 
reductase, was constructed by homology modeling. The factor contributing to the
considerably higher thermostability of B. smithii indigo reductase was analyzed
by comparing its structure with that of B. cohnii indigo reductase, which
revealed that intersubunit aromatic interactions (F105-F172' and F172-F105') may 
be responsible for the high thermostability of B. smithii indigo reductase.
Notably, site-directed mutagenesis results showed that F105 plays a major role in
the intersubunit aromatic interaction.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.08.197 
PMID: 32861785 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no conflicts of interest.

