
1. Trop Anim Health Prod. 2020 Sep 18. doi: 10.1007/s11250-020-02223-8. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Anti-mycotoxigenic properties of probiotic Bacillus spp. in Japanese quails.

Razmgah N(1), Torshizi MAK(1), Sanjabi MR(2), Mojgani N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Poultry Science, Faculty of Agriculture, Tarbiat Modares
University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Agriculture Research Institute, Iranian Research Organization for Science &
Technology (IROST), Shahrak-e-Shahab Sang, Tehran, Tehran Province, Iran.
(3)Research and Development Department, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research
Institute-Agriculture Research Education and Extension Organization, Karaj, Iran.
nmojgani1398@gmail.com.

The current study was conducted to evaluate the anti-mycotoxigenic effects of
previously isolated Bacillus spp. in Japanese quails. A total of 240-day-old
Japanese quails were assigned in to six treatments and four replicates. Dietary
treatments included the following: negative control (basal diet), positive
control (basal diet + 2.5 ppm afltatoxin B1), probiotic treatments (basal diet
+ 2.5 ppm afltatoxin B1), and 108 cfu/ml of different Bacillus spp. (B.
megaterium, B. subtilis, or B. laterosporus) in drinking water and treatment P
(basal diet + 2.5 ppm afltatoxin B1 and 2.5 ppm Polysorb®). Body weight gain,
feed intake, and feed conversion ratio were not affected by dietary treatments
(P > 0.05). Carcass yield significantly increased in B. megaterium and B.
subtilis treatments compared with positive control. Supplementation of B.
megaterium significantly increased testes, uterus and oviduct weights, skin
response to 2,4-dinitro 1-chlorobenzene and phytohemagglutinin, and antibody
production against sheep red blood cells (P < 0.05). B. megaterium could
significantly increase bursa weight and decrease liver weight compared with
positive control (P < 0.05). B. megaterium, B. laterosporus, and Polysorb
treatments significantly decreased H:L and aspartate aminotransferase activity in
aflatoxin B1 fed control (P < 0.05). B. megaterium and B. laterosporus
significantly increased tibia weight, length, radius, index, and ash content
compared with positive control (P < 0.05). All dietary additives significantly
reduced meat oxidation, total aerobic bacteria, and spore forming bacteria of
ileal content compared with positive control (P < 0.05). Ileal lactic acid
bacteria significantly increased in B. megaterium treatment (P < 0.05). Totally, 
B. megaterium might be a promising probiotic with a comparable afltatoxin B1
removal potential to commercial toxin binder (Polysorb).

DOI: 10.1007/s11250-020-02223-8 
PMID: 32946023 

