
1. Biology (Basel). 2020 Sep 22;9(9). pii: E305. doi: 10.3390/biology9090305.

Bioprospecting of a Novel Plant Growth-Promoting Bacterium Bacillus Altitudinis
KP-14 for Enhancing Miscanthus × giganteus Growth in Metals Contaminated Soil.

Pranaw K(1)(2), Pidlisnyuk V(1), Trögl J(1), Malinská H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Chemistry and Technology, Faculty of Environment, 
Jan Evangelista Purkyně University in Ústí nad Labem, 40096 Ústí nad Labem, Czech
Republic.
(2)Department of Environmental Microbiology and Biotechnology, Institute of
Microbiology, Faculty of Biology, University of Warsaw, Miecznikowa 1, 02-096
Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Jan Evangelista Purkyně University 
in Ústí nad Labem, 40096 Ústí nad Labem, Czech Republic.

Use of plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) for cultivation of the biofuel crop
Miscanthus × giganteus (Mxg) in post-military and post-mining sites is a
promising approach for the bioremediation of soils contaminated by metals. In the
present study, PGPB were isolated from contaminated soil and screened for
tolerance against abiotic stresses caused by salinity, pH, temperature, and lead 
(Pb). Selected strains were further assessed and screened for plant
growth-promoting attributes. The isolate showing the most potential, Bacillus
altitudinis KP-14, was tested for enhancement of Mxg growth in contaminated soil 
under greenhouse conditions. It was found to be highly tolerant to diverse
abiotic stresses, exhibiting tolerance to salinity (0-15%), pH (4-8), temperature
(4-50 °C), and Pb (up to 1200 ppm). The association of B. altitudinis KP-14 with 
Mxg resulted in a significant (p ≤ 0.001) impact on biomass enhancement: the
total shoot and dry root weights were significantly enhanced by 77.7% and 55.5%, 
respectively. The significant enhancement of Mxg biomass parameters by
application of B. altitudinis KP-14 strongly supports the use of this strain as a
biofertilizer for the improvement of plant growth in metal-contaminated soils.

DOI: 10.3390/biology9090305 
PMID: 32972004 

