
1. Front Genet. 2020 Jul 16;11:703. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2020.00703. eCollection 2020.

Analysis of the Antifungal Properties of Bacillus velezensis B-4 Through a
Bioassay and Complete-Genome Sequencing.

Zhu Z(1), Peng Q(2), Man Y(2), Li Z(2), Zhou X(2), Bai L(3), Peng D(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Plant Protection, Hunan Agricultural University, Changsha, China.
(2)Hunan Agricultural Biotechnology Research Institute, Changsha, China.
(3)Hunan Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS), Changsha, China.

The strain B-4, isolated from a field in Changsha (China), presents strong
antifungal activities, as identified by the Kirby-Bauer test, especially for
pathogens that harm crops. Here, we obtained the complete genome sequence of the 
strain B-4 by Pacific Biosciences single-molecule real-time sequencing, making it
well analyzed for understanding mechanisms and creating biological agents. Its
3,919-kb circular chromosome genome has 3,725 protein-coding genes [coding
sequences (CDSs)] and 46.7% guanine-cytosine content. A comparative genome
analysis of B-4 with other published strains (including Bacillus velezensis,
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens, and Bacillus subtilis) revealed that the strain B-4
is a B. velezensis strain. These different strains have 2,889 CDSs in common,
whereas 179 CDSs were found to be unique in the strain B-4, which is a far
greater number than that in other strains. Regarding the antifungal activities of
B-4, we were specifically concerned with the genes involved in the biosynthesis
of secondary metabolites. In total, more than 19.56% of the genome was annotated 
to 12 gene clusters relating to synthesis of antimicrobial metabolites, which
contained various enzyme-encoding operons for non-ribosomal peptide synthetases, 
polyketide synthases, and lantipeptide synthesis proteins. They were all
considered to be related to the production of bacteriostatic substances or
stimulation of induced systemic resistance by bacterial metabolites. These
situations also present an advantage over those of other strains for biocontrol
potential. We provide evidence that the biological control effect of the strain
B-4, as demonstrated in antibacterial activity experiments and predicted from the
complete genome sequence analysis, provides the basis for research promoting
agricultural research on sustainable development, especially the contribution of 
biotechnology to agriculture.

Copyright Â© 2020 Zhu, Peng, Man, Li, Zhou, Bai and Peng.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2020.00703 
PMCID: PMC7378798
PMID: 32765583 

