
1. Environ Monit Assess. 2019 Dec 9;192(1):20. doi: 10.1007/s10661-019-7999-6.

Soil enzyme response to bisphenol F contamination in the soil bioaugmented using 
bacterial and mould fungal consortium.

Zaborowska M(1), Wyszkowska J(2), Kucharski J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn, Plac
Łódzki 3, 10-727, Olsztyn, Poland.
(2)Department of Microbiology, University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn, Plac
Łódzki 3, 10-727, Olsztyn, Poland. jadwiga.wyszkowska@uwm.edu.pl.

The concept of the study resulted from the lack of accurate data on the toxicity 
of bisphenol F (BPF) coinciding with the need for immediate changes in the global
economic policy eliminating the effects of environmental contamination with
bisphenol A (BPA). The aim of the experiment was to determine the scale of the
previously unstudied inhibitory effect of BPF on soil biochemical activity. To
this end, in a soil subjected to increasing BPF pressure at three contamination
levels of 0, 5, 50 and 500 mg BPF kg-1 DM, responses of soil enzymes,
dehydrogenases, catalase, urease, acid phosphatase, alkaline phosphatase,
arylsulphatase and β-glucosidase, were examined. Moreover, the study suggested a 
potentially effective way of biostimulating the soil by means of bioaugmentation 
with a consortium of four bacterial species: Pseudomonas umsongensis, Bacillus
mycoides, Bacillus weihenstephanensis and Bacillus subtilis, and the following
fungal species: Mucor circinelloides, Penicillium daleae, Penicillium chrysogenum
and Aspergillus niger. It was found that BPF was a controversial BPA analogue due
to the fact that it contributed to the inhibition of all the enzyme activities.
Dehydrogenases proved to be the most sensitive to bisphenol contamination of the 
soil. The addition of 5 mg BPF kg-1 DM of soil triggered an escalation of the
inhibition comparable to that for the other enzymes only after exposing them to
the effects of 50 and 500 mg BPF kg-1 DM of soil. Moreover, BPF generated low
activity of urease, acid phosphatase, alkaline phosphatase and β-glucosidase.
Bacterial inoculum increased the activity of urease, β-glucosidase, catalase and 
alkaline phosphatase. Seventy-six percent of BPF underwent biodegradation during 
the 5 days of the study.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-019-7999-6 
PMID: 31820108  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

