
1. Environ Int. 2020 Sep 1;144:106051. doi: 10.1016/j.envint.2020.106051. [Epub
ahead of print]

Usage of microbial combination degradation technology for the remediation of
uranium contaminated ryegrass.

Jing L(1), Zhang X(1), Ali I(2), Chen X(3), Wang L(4), Chen H(5), Han M(6), Shang
R(7), Wu Y(8).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences and Engineering, Southwest University of Science and
Technology, Mianyang 621010, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences and Engineering, Southwest University of Science and
Technology, Mianyang 621010, China; Institute of Biochemistry, University of
Balochistan, Quetta 87300, Pakistan. Electronic address: imranalisheik@yahoo.com.
(3)School of Life Sciences and Engineering, Southwest University of Science and
Technology, Mianyang 621010, China. Electronic address: cxmxkd@163.com.
(4)College of Life Science and Technology, Southwest Minzu University, Chengdu
610041, China.
(5)Sichuan Institute of Atomic Energy, Chengdu 610061, China.
(6)State Key Laboratory of NBC Protection for Civilian, Beijing 102205, China.
(7)State Key Laboratory of NBC Protection for Civilian, Beijing 102205, China.
Electronic address: shangran@139.com.
(8)Xinjiang Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Xinjiang 830002, China.

Post phytoremediation accumulation of heavy metals in plants is causing an
environmental issue worldwide. In this study, we investigated the ability of
eight different kinds of microorganisms to degrade and release heavy metals from 
heavy metal enriched ryegrass, including 5 species of bacteria (Bacillus
subtilis, Bacillus licheniformis, Bacillus pumilus-I, Bacillus pumilus-II and
Bacillus cereus) and 3 of fungi (Phanerochaete chrysosporium, Trichoderma ressei 
and Pterula sp. strain QD-1), by growing them under uranium stress and assessing 
their ability to degrade biomass. After 30 days, the degradation ability of fungi
was found better than that of bacteria, while the metal leaching ability of
bacteria was found better. The highest degradation rate (upto 60%) was obtained
by using P. chrysosporium, Pterula sp. strain QD-1 exhibited the best leaching
rate for uranium (upto 77%). The overall degradation rate of lignin and cellulose
and hemicellulose was found lower (40% and 60%, respectively). According to the
antagonistic characteristics of microbes, we combined different dominant species,
in which under optimal conditions the T2 combination (P. chrysosporium, T.
reesei, and Pterula sp. strain QD-1 and B. subtilis) was able to degrade 80% of
the ryegrass, 51% of lignin, 74% of cellulose and hemicellulose, releasing 78% of
U, 90% of Pb and the releasing rate of other heavy metals was more than 95%. FTIR
analysis showed the least degradation of lignin, while SEM-EDX analysis of the
degradation residues displayed the microstructure of ryegrass being greatly
damaged. Only a small amount of U was found in the residues of the researched
combinations. This study provides efficient Microbial Combined Degradation
Technology for heavy metal enriched biomass, which can effectively deal with
heavy metal enriched plants, and provide a basis for the recovery and utilization
of heavy metals, avoiding secondary pollution in the environment caused by this
type of biomass.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envint.2020.106051 
PMID: 32889480 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

