
1. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2020 Mar;12(1):253-258. doi:
10.1007/s12602-019-09540-x.

Therapeutic Prospective of a Spore-Forming Probiotic-Bacillus clausii UBBC07
Against Acetaminophen-Induced Uremia in Rats.

Patel C(1), Patel P(2), Acharya S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, SSR College of Pharmacy, Silvassa, U. T. of Dadra 
Nagar & Haveli, 396230, India. patelchirag17787@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, SSR College of Pharmacy, Silvassa, U. T. of Dadra 
Nagar & Haveli, 396230, India.

To screen Bacillus clausii UBBC07 as a putative probiotic strain and to examine
the protective effect of probiotic-B. clausii UBBC07 spore on uremia on rats
induced by acetaminophen. In vitro tests performed to screen potential probiotic 
strains were gastric and bile acid resistance and ability to reduce pathogen
adhesion to surfaces. An in vivo study was performed on rats (n = 18) which were 
randomly divided into three groups: group I, control-receives normal food and
water, groups II and III receive acetaminophen i.p. at the dose of 550 mg/kg/day 
for 10 days, groups III was treated with B. clausii UBBC07 at a dose of
1 × 109 CFU/day for 15 days. Urea, creatinine, malondialdehyde (MDA), and GSH
levels and antioxidant enzymes like super oxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase
activity were considered to analyze renal failure. Plasma urea and creatinine
levels (p < 0.05) significantly increase and SOD, catalase, and GSH activity
level significantly decrease in group II as compared with the control group.
After treatment with probiotic, there was a significant increase in SOD and
catalase (p < 0.05) and a significant decrease in serum urea, creatinine, and MDA
(p < 0.05) in group III in response to group II. The results also revealed that
probiotic was able to tolerate pH 3.0-9.0 and 0.3% bile salt. The present study
suggests that B. clausii UBBC07 could be used as a novel alternative natural
therapy for uremia, a major syndrome of CKD.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-019-09540-x 
PMID: 30879230 

