
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 Oct 2. pii: AEM.01452-20. doi: 10.1128/AEM.01452-20.
[Epub ahead of print]

Burkholderia thailandensis methylated hydroxy-alkylquinolines: biosynthesis and
antimicrobial activity in co-cultures.

Klaus JR(1), Majerczyk C(2), Moon S(2), Eppler NA(1), Smith S(2), Tuma E(2),
Groleau MC(3), Asfahl KL(4), Smalley NE(4), Hayden HS(4), Piochon M(3), Ball
P(2), Dandekar AA(4), Gauthier C(3), Déziel E(3), Chandler JR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biosciences, University of Kansas, Lawrence KS 66045.
(2)Department of Biology, Oregon State University - Cascades, Bend, OR 97702.
(3)Centre Armand-Frappier Santé Biotechnologie, Institut national de la recherche
scientifique (INRS), Laval (Québec), Canada H7V 1B7.
(4)Department of Microbiology, University of Washington, Seattle WA 98195.
(5)Department of Molecular Biosciences, University of Kansas, Lawrence KS 66045
jrchandler@ku.edu.

The bacterium Burkholderia thailandensis produces an arsenal of secondary
metabolites that have diverse structures and roles in the ecology of this
soil-dwelling bacterium. In co-culture experiments, B. thailandensis strain E264 
secretes an antimicrobial that nearly eliminates another soil bacterium, Bacillus
subtilis strain 168. To identify the antimicrobial, we used a transposon
mutagenesis approach. This screen identified antimicrobial-defective mutants with
insertions in the hmqA, hmqC, and hmqF genes involved in biosynthesis of a family
of 2-alkyl-4(1H)-quinolones called 4-hydroxy-3-methyl-2-alkenylquinolines
(HMAQs), which are closely related to the Pseudomonas aeruginosa
4-hydroxy-2-alkylquinolines (HAQs). Insertions also occurred in the previously
uncharacterized gene BTH_II1576 ("hmqL"). Results confirm that BTH_II1576 is
involved in generating N-oxide derivatives of HMAQs (HMAQ-NO). Synthetic HMAQ-NO 
is active against B. subtilis 168, showing ∼50-fold more activity than HMAQ. Both
the methyl group and the length of the carbon side chain account for high
activity of HMAQ-NO. The results provide new information on the biosynthesis and 
activities of HMAQs and reveal new insight into how these molecules might be
important for the ecology of B. thailandensis. IMPORTANCE The soil bacterium
Burkholderia thailandensis produces 2-alkyl-4(1H)-quinolones, mostly methylated
4-hydroxy-alkenylquinolines, a family of relatively unstudied metabolites similar
to molecules also synthesized by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Several of the
methylated 4-hydroxy-alkenylquinolines have antimicrobial activity against other 
species. We show that Bacillus subtilis strain 168 is particularly susceptible to
N-oxidated methyl-alkenylquinolines (HMAQ-NO). We confirmed HMAQ-NO biosynthesis 
requires the previously unstudied protein HmqL. These results provide new
information about the biology of 2-alkyl-4(1H)-quinolones, particularly the
methylated 4-hydroxy-alkenylquinolines, which are unique to B. thailandensis.
This study also has importance for understanding B. thailandensis secondary
metabolites and has implications for potential therapeutic development.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01452-20 
PMID: 33008823 

