
1. Plant Dis. 2020 Sep 8:PDIS06191132RE. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-06-19-1132-RE. [Epub
ahead of print]

Effects of ILeVO Seed Treatment on Heterodera glycines Reproduction and Soybean
Yield in Small-Plot and Strip-Trial Experiments in Iowa.

Bissonnette KM(1), Marett CC(1), Mullaney MP(1), Gebhart GD(1), Kyveryga PM(2),
Mueller TA(3), Tylka GL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Pathology and Microbiology, Iowa State University, Ames,
IA 50011.
(2)Iowa Soybean Association Research-Analytics, Ankeny, IA 50023.
(3)Formerly, Iowa Soybean Association Research-On-Farm Network, Ankeny, IA 50023.

ILeVO (fluopyram) is a fungicide seed treatment for soybean sudden death syndrome
(SDS) that also has nematicidal activity. ILeVO is sold with a base of
insecticide Poncho (clothianidin), nematode-protectant VOTiVO (Bacillus firmus), 
and Acceleron fungicides (metalaxyl, fluxapyroxad, and pyraclostrobin). Yield and
reproduction of the soybean cyst nematode (SCN) (Heterodera glycines) on soybean 
plants grown from seed treated with ILeVO plus the base were compared with those 
treated with only the base in 27 small-plot experiments and 12 strip-trial
experiments across Iowa from 2015 to 2017. To increase the likelihood that yield 
results were related to effects on SCN, data were used only from 26 small-plot
experiments and 12 strip trials in which symptoms of SDS were low or nonexistent.
An SCN reproductive factor (RF) was calculated for each experimental unit by
dividing the SCN population density at harvest by the population density at
planting. ILeVO significantly reduced SCN RF by 50% in one strip-trial experiment
and by 36 to 60% in four small-plot experiments but yields were not increased by 
ILeVO in any of those five experiments. Soybean yields were 2.8 to 3.7
bushels/acre (bu/ac) (188.3 to 248.8 kg/ha) greater with ILeVO in three
small-plot experiments but SCN RF was not reduced in those experiments. Also,
yield was 1.9 bu/ac (127.8 kg/ha) greater with ILeVO in one strip-trial
experiment in 2016 but SCN samples were not collected at harvest from the study
to assess the possible effects of ILeVO on SCN reproduction. When strip-trial
data from 2015 and 2016 were combined, there was a small but significant 0.8
bu/ac (52.2 kg/ha) yield increase with ILeVO. Overall, the effects of ILeVO on
SCN reproduction and soybean yield were variable in these field studies.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-06-19-1132-RE 
PMID: 32900294 

