
1. Environ Technol. 2020 Apr;41(9):1185-1198. doi: 10.1080/09593330.2018.1523951.
Epub 2018 Sep 27.

Removal of fluoride in aqueous medium under the optimum conditions through
intracellular accumulation in Bacillus flexus (PN4).

Sakthi Thesai A(1), Rajakumar S(2), Ayyasamy PM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Periyar University, Salem, India.
(2)Department of Marine Biotechnology, Bharathidasan University, Tiruchirappalli,
India.

The removal of fluoride is essential for water contaminated with fluoride before 
being utilized since the unsafe concentration of fluoride with respect to the
permissible limits. In the present study, there are 61 bacterial strains
belonging to fluoride tolerance were isolated from the contaminated soil of
Dharmapuri District, Tamil Nadu, India and they were evaluated for different
characterization. Among the strains isolated, the strain PN4 showed a high
tolerance to fluoride ranging from 500 to 2500 ppm under different stress
conditions. The strain PN4 was selected as a possible organism for the
degradation and removal of fluoride in an aqueous medium. Based on the
morphology, biochemical characteristics and the 16S rRNA sequencing, the
bacterium PN4 was identified as Bacillus flexus. In batch mode studies, the
glucose was showed the maximum removal of fluoride (86%) followed by beef extract
(82%) and a significant level of defluoridation was observed at pH 7.0 and the
temperature at 35°C. In the antibiotic-resistance pattern, the strain Bacillus
flexus PN4 was shown sensitive to three different antibiotics. Intracellular
accumulation of fluoride by the bacterial cell was characterized by SEM- EDAX,
TEM and FTIR analysis.

DOI: 10.1080/09593330.2018.1523951 
PMID: 30215580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

