
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Sep 11. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02191-0. [Epub ahead of
print]

Screening for Candidate Genes Associated with Biocontrol Mechanisms of Bacillus
pumilus DX01 Using Tn5 Transposon Mutagenesis and a 2-DE-Based Comparative
Proteomic Analysis.

Chen Y(1), Liu T(2), Li Q(2), Ma Y(2), Cheng J(2), Xu L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Resources and Environment, School of Agriculture and Biology,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China. ypchen7274@sjtu.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Resources and Environment, School of Agriculture and Biology,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China.

A total of 1467 mutants of the biocontrol bacterium Bacillus pumilus DX01 were
obtained by Tn5 insertional mutagenesis and subjected to the determination of
antagonistic capabilities. Compared with the wild-type strain DX01, the mutant
M25 was identified to have the most significant reduction in antagonistic
capability against the phytopathogen Bipolaris maydis and extracellular
proteinase activity. The integration site of the exogenous T-DNA in the genome of
mutant M25 was revealed in the coding region of malony CoA-ACP transacylase
(MCAT) gene (mcat), which belongs to a polyketide synthase (PKS) gene cluster,
DX01pks of B. pumilus DX01. Furthermore, the whole DX01pks gene cluster was
cloned using Illumina Solexa sequencing technology, and it has a modular
framework different from the other two gene clusters involved in polyketide
synthesis in B. amyloliquefaciens FZB42 (pks1) and B. subtilis 168 (pksX).
Finally, in order to gain more insights into the molecular mechanisms of
biocontrol of B. pumilus DX01, the changes in the relative level of expression of
total proteins between the original strain DX01 and the mutant M25 were detected 
by 2-DE-based proteomic analysis. A total of twenty differentially expressed
proteins were identified upon the mcat gene transposition mutagenesis. Of these
proteins, seven proteins were up-regulated in expression level and the other
proteins were down-regulated. Taken together, the results in this study showed
that Tn5 transposon mutagenesis of B. pumilus DX01 can lead to a significant
change of antiphytopathogen ability, and the DX01pks gene cluster possibly play a
potential role in the biocontrol processes of this bacterium.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02191-0 
PMID: 32915287 

