
1. Anim Nutr. 2020 Sep;6(3):278-287. doi: 10.1016/j.aninu.2020.04.002. Epub 2020 Jun
24.

Dietary supplementation of Bacillus subtilis PB6 improves sow reproductive
performance and reduces piglet birth intervals.

Zhang Q(1)(2), Li J(1)(2), Cao M(1)(2), Li Y(1)(2), Zhuo Y(1)(2), Fang Z(1)(2),
Che L(1)(2), Xu S(1)(2), Feng B(1)(2), Lin Y(1)(2), Jiang X(1)(2), Zhao X(1)(2), 
Wu(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for Animal Disease Resistance Nutrition, Ministry of Education,
Chengdu, 611130, China.
(2)Institute of Animal Nutrition, Sichuan Agricultural University, Chengdu,
611130, China.

We investigated the effects of dietary supplementation with Bacillus subtilis PB6
(B. subtilis PB6) during late gestation and lactation on sow reproductive
performance, antioxidant indices, and gut microbiota. A total of 32 healthy
Landrace × Yorkshire sows on d 90 of gestation were randomly assigned to 2
groups, with 16 replicates per group, receiving basal diet (CON) or the basal
diet + 0.2% B. subtilis PB6, containing 4.0 × 108 CFU/kg of feed (BS). The litter
sizes (total born) and numbers of piglets born alive were larger in the BS group 
(P < 0.01), whereas the weights of piglets born alive and the piglet birth
intervals were lower in the BS group (P < 0.05). Although the litter weights and 
piglet bodyweights (after cross-fostering) were lower after BS treatment
(P < 0.05), the litter sizes, litter weights, lactation survival rate, and litter
weight gains at weaning were higher in BS group (P < 0.05). The concentrations of
malondialdehyde (MDA) in the sow sera at parturition were lower in the BS group
(P < 0.01). The serum total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC) at parturition and the
serum catalase (CAT) concentrations on d 21 of lactation were higher in the BS
group (P < 0.05). Dietary supplementation with B. subtilis PB6 (P < 0.05) reduced
the serum endotoxin concentrations in the sows and the serum cortisol
concentrations of the piglets at d 14 of lactation. The α-diversity indices of
microbial were higher in the CON group (P < 0.05). At the phylum level,
B. subtilis PB6 supplementation increased the relative abundances of
Gemmatimonadete and Acidobacteria (both P < 0.01) and reduced those of
Proteobacteria, and Actinobacteria (both P < 0.05). At the genus level,
B. subtilis PB6 supplementation increased the relative abundance of
Ruminococcaceae_UCG-013 cc (P < 0.05) and reduced that of Streptococcus
(P < 0.05). This study demonstrated that adding 4.0 × 108 CFU/kg B. subtilis PB6 
to sows' feed during late gestation and lactation could shorten piglet birth
intervals, enhance the growth performance of suckling piglets, and improve the
gut health of sows during late gestation.

© 2020 Chinese Association of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine. Production 
and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aninu.2020.04.002 
PMCID: PMC7503085
PMID: 33005761 

Conflict of interest statement: We declare that we have no financial and personal
relationships with other people or organizations that can inappropriately
influence our work, there is no professional or other personal interest of any
nature or kind in any product, service and/or company that could be construed as 
influencing the content of this paper.

