
1. Animals (Basel). 2020 Sep 9;10(9). pii: E1604. doi: 10.3390/ani10091604.

Effects of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens and Bacillus pumilus on Rumen and Intestine
Morphology and Microbiota in Weanling Jintang Black Goat.

Zhang N(1), Wang L(1), Wei Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau Animal Genetic Resource Reservation 
and Utilization, Ministry of Education and Sichuan Province, Southwest Minzu
University, Chengdu 610041, China.
(2)Animal Genetics and Breeding Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Animal
Science Academy of Sichuan Province, Chengdu 610066, China.

The importance of Bacillus as feed additives in animals' production is well
recognized. Bacillus amyloliquefaciens and Bacillus pumilus are involved in
promoting animal growth performance and immunological indicators. However, their 
precise roles in the modulation of microbiota and immune response in goat rumen
and intestines have not been investigated. The aim of the current work was to
evaluate the impacts of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens fsznc-06 and Bacillus pumilus 
fsznc-09 in the development of rumen and small intestinal and microbial
communities in rumen and caecum of weanling Jintang black goats. Morphological
alterations of rumen and small intestine (duodenum, jejunum, and ileum) were
evaluated by histochemical staining, and ruminal contents and cecal feces were
analyzed by 16S rRNA sequencing in an Illumina NovaSeq platform. Morphological
analysis showed that feeding weanling goats with Bacillus amyloliquefaciens
fsznc-06 or Bacillus pumilus fsznc-09 enhanced ruminal papilla and small
intestinal villus growth. In addition, 16S rRNA sequencing analysis indicated
that microbial richness and diversity (Shannon, Simpson, Chao1, and ACE) and the 
relative richness of multiple or potential beneficial bacteria were higher in
weaned black goats fed on Bacillus amyloliquefaciens fsznc-06 or Bacillus pumilus
fsznc-09, but that of multiple or potentially pathogenic bacteria were lower, as 
compared with the control group. Tax4Fun analysis predicting the functional
profiling of microbial communities showed that microbial communities in rumen or 
caecum were highly influential on metabolism and organism systems after feeding
weanling goats with Bacillus amyloliquefaciens fsznc-06 or Bacillus pumilus
fsznc-09. It was suggested that Bacillus amyloliquefaciens fsznc-06 and Bacillus 
pumilus fsznc-09 might be an auspicious antibiotic alternative to improve black
goat growth and health by changing rumen and gut microbiota positively.

DOI: 10.3390/ani10091604 
PMID: 32916846 

