
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Mar;140:103947. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2019.103947. Epub 2019
Dec 23.

Antitumor effect of exopolysaccharide produced by Bacillus mycoides.

Farag MMS(1), Moghannem SAM(2), Shehabeldine AM(2), Azab MS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Botany and Microbiology Department, Faculty of Science, Al-Azhar University,
Nasr City, Cairo, 11884, Egypt. Electronic address: mohamed.farag@azhar.edu.eg.
(2)Botany and Microbiology Department, Faculty of Science, Al-Azhar University,
Nasr City, Cairo, 11884, Egypt.

Recently, microbial exopolysaccharides (EPSs) have offered very large field for
medical applications owing to their bioactive characteristics. This study aimed
to obtain antitumor EPS and to optimize its production using different
optimization approaches. Eighty EPSs-producing bacteria were obtained from mud
samples. Isolate BS4 was selected as the most potent antitumor EPS-producer and
identified as Bacillus mycoides BS4 using 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis. Cell
viability and antitumor activity of produced EPS were investigated using
microscopic examination and MTT assay. Interestingly, the produced EPS exhibited 
low cytotoxicity against normal cell baby hamster kidney (BHK) with IC50 at 254
μgml-1 while it exhibited an inhibitory effect against cancer cells of human
hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) and Colorectal adenocarcinoma cells (Caco-2)
with IC50 of 138 μgml-1 and 159 μgml-1, respectively. The purified EPS was
characterized using Fourier transform infrared, gel permeation chromatography and
gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy. It showed molecular weight of 1.90 × 104 Da
and consists of galactose, mannose, glucose and glucuronic acid. The factors
affecting EPS production were optimized using one-factor-at-a time and
statistical optimization methods. The Placket-Burman (PB) design results
indicated that sugarcane molasses, peptone and shaking conditions were the most
significant variables, which were further optimized by Response Surface
Methodology (RSM). The optimum conditions for EPS production were 8.0% (w/v)
sugarcane molasses, 6 gL‒1 peptone and 300 rpm that produce 8.02gL‒1 of EPS. This
indicates the potentiality of Bacillus mycoides BS4 for production of EPS with
biomedical applications.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2019.103947 
PMID: 31874230 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The Authors
declares that they have no conflict of interest.

