
1. Water Environ Res. 2020 Apr;92(4):569-578. doi: 10.1002/wer.1246. Epub 2019 Oct
11.

Response surface methodology mediated optimization of Indanthrene Blue RS by a
novel isolated bacterial strain Bacillus flexus TS8.

Mohanty SS(1), Kumar A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of Technology Rourkela,
Rourkela, Odisha, India.

The enhanced decolorization and detoxification of Indanthrene Blue RS dye, under 
aerobic conditions, by a novel isolated anthraquinone-degrading bacterium,
Bacillus flexus TS8, has been presented in this paper. The optimal decolorization
conditions were determined by response surface methodology based on Box-Behnken
design. The results indicated that the strain TS8 possessed the highest
decolorization efficacy at pH 10.26, temperature 30.97 ºC and an inoculum size of
10.48% (v/v). It also revealed that about 98.01% of 100 mg/L of Indanthrene Blue 
RS could be decolorized within 24 hr under these optimized conditions. The
subsequent degradation of the dye and the formation of metabolites were studied
using analytical techniques such as UV-Vis spectroscopy, FTIR, and ESI/LC-MS
analysis. The UV-Vis analysis of the colorless bacterial cells demonstrated that 
Bacillus sp. TS8 possessed this decolorizing activity through biodegradation. The
degraded products obtained from ESI/LC-MS analysis were identified as
1-hydroxyanthracene-9, 10-dione (m/z-224), 1, 4-di-hydroxyanthracene-9, 10-dione 
(m/z-240), and phthalic acid (m/z-168). This study investigated the highest
decolorization efficacy of strain TS8 to be utilized in the biological treatment 
of wastewaters containing anthraquinone dyes. PRACTITIONER POINTS: Enhanced
decolorization of anthraquinone dye wastewater. Ninety-eight percentage of dye
decolorization was obtained within 24 hr. Optimization of process parameters
through the response surface methodology. ESI/LC-MS analysis identified phthalic 
acid as the end product of Indanthrene Blue RS degradation. Degradation pathway
for Indanthrene Blue RS is outlined.

© 2019 Water Environment Federation.

DOI: 10.1002/wer.1246 
PMID: 31556198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

