
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Jan;70(1):481-486. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003776.

Bacillus taxi sp. nov., a novel endophytic bacterium isolated from root of Taxus 
chinensis (Pilger) Rehd.

Tuo L(1), Liu F(2), Yan XR(1), Liu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Guizhou Provincial College-based Key Lab for Tumor Prevention and Treatment
with Distinctive Medicines, Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi 563006, PR China.
(2)College of Pharmacy, HuNan Vocational College of Science and Technology,
Changsha 410200, PR China.

A Gram-staining-positive, aerobic, rod-shaped, endospore-forming bacterium,
designated strain M5HDSG1-1T, was originally isolated from a surface-sterilized
root of Taxus chinensis (Pilger) Rehd. in Guizhou, PR China. This bacterium was
tested by a polyphasic approach to determine its taxonomic position. A 16S rRNA
gene-based phylogenetic analysis revealed that M5HDSG1-1T had the greatest
similarity to the type strain of Bacillus nealsonii DSM 15077T (99.1 %). The
average nucleotide identity values between M5HDSG1-1T and Bacillus nealsonii DSM 
15077T and Bacillus circulans NBRC 13626T were 73.3 and 72.8 %, respectively. The
digital DNA-DNA hybridization values between M5HDSG1-1T and Bacillus nealsonii
DSM 15077T and Bacillus circulans NBRC 13626T were 20.1 and 20.6 %, respectively,
which were below the recommended thresholds. M5HDSG1-1T grew at a pH range of
6.0-12.0 (optimum, 7.0-8.0), at temperatures between 10 and 45 °C (optimum,
30 °C) and at 0-2 % (w/v) NaCl (optimum, 1 %). Neither substrate nor aerial
mycelia was formed, and no diffusible pigments were observed on the media tested.
The predominant isoprenoid quinone was menaquinone-7 (MK-7). The major fatty
acids were anteiso-C15 : 0, and iso-C15 : 0. The polar lipids comprised
diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylethanolamine, an
unidentified aminophospholipid and an unidentified phospholipid. The DNA G+C
content was 37.5 mol%. According to the phylogeneic, phenotypic and
chemotaxonomic data, M5HDSG1-1T was clearly distinguishable from other species
with validly published names in the genus Bacillus and should therefore be
classified as representing a novel species, and we suggest the name Bacillus taxi
sp. nov. The type strain is M5HDSG1-1T (=JCM 33117T=CGMCC 1.13668T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003776 
PMID: 31613744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

