
1. Nutrients. 2020 Feb 27;12(3). pii: E632. doi: 10.3390/nu12030632.

Probiotic Bacillus Spores Protect Against Acetaminophen Induced Acute Liver
Injury in Rats.

Neag MA(1), Catinean A(2), Muntean DM(3), Pop MR(1), Bocsan CI(1), Botan EC(4),
Buzoianu AD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Clinical Pharmacology, Iuliu
Hatieganu University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 400337 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Iuliu Hatieganu University of Medicine and
Pharmacy, 400006 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology and Biopharmaceutics, Iuliu Hatieganu 
University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 400010 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(4)County Emergency Hospital, 400006 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

Acetaminophen (APAP) is one of the most used analgesics and antipyretic agents in
the world. Intoxication with APAP is the main cause of acute liver toxicity in
both the US and Europe. Spore-forming probiotic bacteria have the ability to
resist harsh gastric and intestinal conditions. The aim of this study was to
investigate the possible protective effect of Bacillus (B) species (sp) spores
(B. licheniformis, B. indicus, B. subtilis, B. clausii, B. coagulans) against
hepatotoxicity induced by APAP in rats. A total of 35 rats were randomly divided 
into seven groups: group I served as control; group II received silymarin; group 
III received MegaSporeBioticTM (MSB); group IV received APAP and served as the
model of hepatotoxicity; group V received APAP and silymarin; group VI received
APAP and MSB; group VII received APAP, silymarin and MSB. The livers for
histopathological examination and blood samples were collected on the last day of
the experiment. We determined aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine
aminotransferase (ALT) and total antioxidant capacity (TAC) levels and zonula
occludens (ZO-1), tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) and interleukin 1β (IL-1β)
expression. APAP overdose increased AST and ALT. It slowly decreased TAC compared
to the control group, but pretreatment with silymarin and MSB increased TAC
levels. Elevated plasma concentrations were identified for ZO-1 in groups treated
with APAP overdose compared with those without APAP or receiving APAP in
combination with silymarin, MSB or both. The changes were positively correlated
with the levels of other proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β). In addition,
histopathological hepatic injury was improved by preadministration of MSB or
silymarin versus the disease model group. Bacillus sp spores had a protective
effect on acute hepatic injury induced by APAP. Pretreatment with MSB resulted in
a significant reduction in serum AST, ALT, TNF-α, IL-1β, ZO-1, TAC and also
hepatocyte necrosis, similar to the well-known hepatoprotective agent-silymarin.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12030632 
PMCID: PMC7146158
PMID: 32120994 

