
1. J Biotechnol. 2020 Jul 24;323:9-16. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.07.017. [Epub
ahead of print]

Assessment of different Bacillus coagulans strains for l-lactic acid production
from defined media and gardening hydrolysates: Effect of lignocellulosic
inhibitors.

Cubas-Cano E(1), Venus J(2), González-Fernández C(1), Tomás-Pejó E(3).

Author information: 
(1)IMDEA Energy Institute, Biotechnological Processes Unit, 28935, Móstoles,
Spain.
(2)Leibniz Institute for Agricultural Engineering and Bioeconomy e.V. (ATB),
14469, Potsdam, Germany.
(3)IMDEA Energy Institute, Biotechnological Processes Unit, 28935, Móstoles,
Spain. Electronic address: elia.tomas@imdea.org.

Cellulose valorisation has been successfully addressed for years. However, the
use of hemicellulosic hydrolysates is limited due to the presence of C5-sugars
and inhibitors formed during pretreatment. Bacillus coagulans is one of the few
bacteria able to utilize both C6- and C5-sugars to produce l-lactic acid, but its
susceptibility to the lignocellulosic inhibitors needs further investigation. For
such a purpose, the tolerance of different B. coagulans strains to increasing
concentrations of inhibitors is studied. The isolated A162 strain reached the
highest l-lactic acid productivity in all cases (up to 2.4 g L-1  h-1), even in
presence of 5 g L-1 of furans and phenols. Remarkably, most of furans and
phenolic aldehydes were removed from defined media and hemicellulosic gardening
hydrolysate after fermentation with A162. Considering the high productivities and
the biodetoxifying effect attained, A162 could be pointed out as a great
candidate for valorisation of mixed sugars from hemicellulosic hydrolysates with 
high inhibitors concentration, promoting the implementation of lignocellulosic
biorefineries.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.07.017 
PMID: 32712129 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

