
1. Pathogens. 2020 Sep 30;9(10). pii: E806. doi: 10.3390/pathogens9100806.

A Siderophore Analog of Fimsbactin from Acinetobacter Hinders Growth of the
Phytopathogen Pseudomonas syringae and Induces Systemic Priming of Immunity in
Arabidopsis thaliana.

Betoudji F(1), Abd El Rahman T(1), Miller MJ(2), Ghosh M(3), Jacques M(4),
Bouarab K(1), Malouin F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Département de Biologie, Faculté des Sciences, Université de Sherbrooke, QC
J1K 2R1, Canada.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre Dame, Notre
Dame, IN 46556, USA.
(3)Rosetree Corporate Center, Hsiri Therapeutics, Inc., Media, PA 19063, USA.
(4)Département de Pathologie et Microbiologie, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire,
Université de Montréal, Saint-Hyacinthe, QC J2S 2M2, Canada.

Siderophores produced in soil by plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPRs)
play several roles, including nutrient mobilizers and can be useful as plants
defense elicitors. We investigated the role of a synthetic mixed ligand
bis-catechol-mono-hydroxamate siderophore (SID) that mimics the chemical
structure of a natural siderophore, fimsbactin, produced by Acinetobacter spp. in
the resistance against the phytopathogen Pseudomonas syringaepv tomato DC3000
(Pst DC3000), in Arabidopsis thaliana. We first tested the antibacterial activity
of SID against Pst DC3000 in vitro. After confirming that SID had antibacterial
activity against Pst DC3000, we tested whether the observed in vitro activity
could translate into resistance of Arabidopsis to Pst DC3000, using bacterial
loads as endpoints in a plant infection model. Furthermore, using quantitative
polymerase chain reaction, we explored the molecular actors involved in the
resistance of Arabidopsis induced by SID. Finally, to assure that SID would not
interfere with PGPRs, we tested in vitro the influence of SID on the growth of a 
reference PGPR, Bacillus subtilis. We report here that SID is an antibacterial
agent as well as an inducer of systemic priming of resistance in A. thaliana
against Pst DC3000, and that SID can, at the same time, promote growth of a PGPR.

DOI: 10.3390/pathogens9100806 
PMID: 33007866 

