
1. Int J Phytoremediation. 2020;22(4):363-372. doi: 10.1080/15226514.2019.1663486.
Epub 2019 Sep 14.

Rhizosphere mediated biodegradation of benzo(A)pyrene by surfactin producing soil
bacilli applied through Melia azadirachta rhizosphere.

Kotoky R(1), Pandey P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Assam University, Silchar, Assam, India.

Erratum in
    Int J Phytoremediation. 2020;22(11):1215.

Benzo(a)pyrene is a high-molecular-weight polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon highly 
persistent in the environment as a biohazard. The present research emphasizes on 
rhizodegradation of BaP using bacterial isolates, Bacillus flexus S1I26 (NCBI
accession no- KX692271), and Paenibacillus sp. S1I8 (KX602663) with plant Melia
azadirachta. The isolates produced surfactin type bio-surfactant with high
emulsification index that could solubilize BaP efficiently. The extracted crude
bio-surfactants could solubilize BaP up to 24.41%, which was higher than the
efficiency of synthetic surfactant SDS (9.7%) but less than other synthetic
surfactant, tweens 80 (42.79%). The isolates showed excellent degradation of BaP 
after 21 days in laboratory conditions where B. flexus S2I26 showed degradation
of BaP up to 70.7% and isolates Paenibacillus sp. S1I8 showed degradation rate of
76.76% in a liquid medium. Pot trial experiment showed efficient rhizodegradation
of BaP in the soil after 60 days in the rhizosphere of plant Melia azadirachta.
After application of S1I8 and S1I26, the rate of degradation was found to be much
higher (87.42 and 86.08%) than in bulk (68.22%). Therefore, the results suggest
that the bio-surfactant producing isolates could be a promising biodegradation
tool for benzo(a)pyrene in soil and may be used for bioremediation of hydrocarbon
contaminated sites.

DOI: 10.1080/15226514.2019.1663486 
PMID: 31522524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

