
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 24;8(10). pii: E1463. doi:
10.3390/microorganisms8101463.

Pepper Bacterial Spot Control by Bacillus velezensis: Bioprocess Solution.

Pajčin I(1), Vlajkov V(1), Frohme M(2), Grebinyk S(2), Grahovac M(3), Mojićević
M(4), Grahovac J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Technology, University of Novi Sad, Bulevar cara Lazara 1, 21000
Novi Sad, Serbia.
(2)Technical University of Applied Sciences Wildau, Hochschulring 1, 15745
Wildau, Germany.
(3)Faculty of Agriculture, University of Novi Sad, Trg Dositeja Obradovića 8,
21000 Novi Sad, Serbia.
(4)Institute of Molecular Genetics and Genetic Engineering (IMGGE), University of
Belgrade, Vojvode Stepe 444a, P. Fah 23, 11010 Belgrade, Serbia.

Pepper bacterial spot is one of the most severe plant diseases in terms of
infection persistence and economic losses when it comes to fresh pepper fruits
used in nutrition and industrial processing. In this study, Bacillus velezensis
IP22 isolated from fresh cheese was used as a biocontrol agent of pepper
bacterial spot, whose main causal agent is the cosmopolitan pathogen Xanthomonas 
euvesicatoria. After optimization of the cultivation medium composition aimed at 
maximizing of the antimicrobial activity against X. euvesicatoria and validation 
of the optimized medium at the scale of a laboratory bioreactor, in planta tests 
were performed. The results have showed significant suppression of bacterial spot
symptoms in pepper plants by the produced biocontrol agent, as well as reduction 
of disease spreading on the healthy (uninoculated) pepper leaves. Furthermore,
HPLC-MS (high pressure liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry) analysis was
employed to examine antimicrobial metabolites produced by B. velezensis IP22,
where lipopeptides were found with similar m/z values compared to lipopeptides
from fengycin and locillomycin families. The bioprocess solution developed at the
laboratory scale investigated in this study represents a promising strategy for
production of pepper bacterial spot biocontrol agent based on B. velezensis IP22,
a food isolate with a great perspective for application in plant protection.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8101463 
PMID: 32987624 

