
1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Aug 18;751:141720. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.141720. 
[Epub ahead of print]

Effect of natural microbiome and culturable biosurfactants-producing bacterial
consortia of freshwater lake on petroleum-hydrocarbon degradation.

Phulpoto IA(1), Hu B(1), Wang Y(2), Ndayisenga F(1), Li J(1), Yu Z(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Resources and Environment, University of Chinese Academy of
Sciences, 19 A Yuquan Road, Beijing 100049, PR China.
(2)Yanshan Earth Critical Zone and Surface Fluxes Research Station, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, No. 380 Huaibei Town, Huairou District, Beijing 101408, PR
China.
(3)College of Resources and Environment, University of Chinese Academy of
Sciences, 19 A Yuquan Road, Beijing 100049, PR China. Electronic address:
yuzs@ucas.ac.cn.

Freshwater lake ecosystem is a reservior of valuable microbial diversity. It
needs to be explored for addressing key environmental issues like
petroleum-hydrocarbon contamination. In this work, the microbial communities (pre
and post enriched with petroleum-hydrocarbons) from different layers of
freshwater lake, i.e. surface water, sediments and deepwater, were explored
through metagenomic and culture-dependent approaches. A total of 41 bacterial
phyla were retrieved from pre-enriched samples, which were significantly reduced 
in enriched samples where Proteobacteria were dominant (87% to 100%) followed by 
Bacteroidetes (7.37%) and Verrucomicrobia (3.06%). The most dominant
hydrocarbon-degrading genera were extensively verified as Pseudomonas (48.65%),
Acinetobacter (45.38%), Stenotrophomonas (3.16%) and Brevundimonas (2.07%) in
surface water (S1WCC); Acinetobacter (62.46%), Aeromonas (10.7%),
Sphingobacterium (5.20%) and Pseudomonas (4.23%) in sediment (S2MCC); and
Acinetobacter (46.57%), Pseudomonas (13.10%), Comamonas (12.93%), Flavobacterium 
(12.18%) and Enterobacter (9.62%) in deep water (S4WCC). Additionally, the
maximum biodegradation of petroleum-hydrocarbons (i.e. used engine oil or UEO)
was achieved by microbiome of S2MCC (67.60 ± 0.08%) followed by S4WCC
(59.70 ± 0.12%), whereas only 36.80 ± 0.10% degradation was achieved by S1WCC
microbiome. On the other hand, UEO degradation by cultivable
biosurfactant-producing single cultures such as Pseudomonas sp. S2WE, Pseudomonas
sp. S2WG, Pseudomonas sp. S2MS, Ochrobactrum sp. S1MM and Bacillus nealsonii S2MT
showed 31.10 ± 0.08% to 40.50 ± 0.11% biodegradation. Comparatively, the
biodegradation efficiency was found higher (i.e. 42.20 ± 0.12% to 56.10 ± 0.12%) 
in each consortia comprising of two, three, four, and five bacterial cultures.
Conclusively, the isolated culturable biosurfactants-producing bacterial
consortium of freshwater lake demonstrated >80% contribution in the total
petroleum-hydrocarbons degradation by the natural microbiome of the ecosystem.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.141720 
PMID: 32882554 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

