
1. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2020 Aug 15. doi: 10.1007/s11356-020-10440-9. [Epub
ahead of print]

A pollution reducing enzymatic deinking approach for recycling of mixed office
waste paper.

Singh A(1)(2), Varghese LM(1), Yadav RD(3), Mahajan R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, Haryana,
136119, India.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Indian Institute of Science Education and
Research, Mohali, Punjab, 140306, India.
(3)Trident Limited, Mansa Road, Dhaula, Barnala, Punjab, 148105, India.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, Haryana,
136119, India. ritupanipat@rediffmail.com.

The efficiency of xylano-pectinolytic enzymes, co-produced by a single microbial 
strain Bacillus pumilus, was analysed for the recycling of mixed office waste
paper through deinking and compared with the alkaline chemical deinking method.
Enzymes showed maximum deinking at pH 8.5, pulp consistency of 10%,
xylanase-pectinase dose of 12 and 4 IU per gram pulp, respectively, after 120 min
of deinking period, and temperature at 50 Â°C. A chemi-enzymatic approach was
employed with xylano-pectinolytic enzymes and various concentrations of deinking 
chemicals, which showed that enzyme-treated mixed office waste pulp requires only
40% chemicals for deinking, in order to get the almost same level of various
handsheets properties, as obtained by the chemical method with 100% chemicals.
Similarly, the effluent load of BOD and COD contents was also decreased by 17.90 
and 19.75%. This combinational approach of deinking significantly improved the
various properties of the handsheets and resulted in gain of 7.5, 9.38, 6.33 and 
11.65% in tear factor, burst factor, breaking length and viscosity of the
handsheets, while the effective residual ink concentration analysis of deinked
handsheets of mixed office waste paper showed deinking efficiency of 22.45%,
which revealed the removal of ink particles during enzymatic deinking steps.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-020-10440-9 
PMID: 32803575 

