
1. J Hazard Mater. 2020 Apr 15;388:121787. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2019.121787. Epub 
2019 Nov 29.

Ortho and para oxydehalogenation of dihalophenols catalyzed by the monooxygenase 
TcpA and NAD(P)H:FAD reductase Fre.

Fang L(1), Qin H(1), Shi T(1), Wu X(1), Li QX(2), Hua R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for Agri-Food Safety, School of Resource & Environment, Anhui
Agricultural University, Hefei, Anhui 230036, China.
(2)Department of Molecular Biosciences and Bioengineering, University of Hawaii
at Manoa, 1955 East-West Road, Honolulu, HI 96822, United States. Electronic
address: qingl@hawaii.edu.
(3)Key Laboratory for Agri-Food Safety, School of Resource & Environment, Anhui
Agricultural University, Hefei, Anhui 230036, China. Electronic address:
rimaohua@ahau.edu.cn.

Dihalophenols such as dichlorophenols (DCPs) are important industrial chemical
intermediates, but also persistent pollutants in the environment. Oxidative
dehalogenation by microbes is an efficient biological method to degrade
halophenols, but the mechanism is unclear yet. Cupriavidus nantongensis X1T was a
type strain of genus Cupriavidus, and could degrade 2,4-dichlorophenol of 50 mg/L
within 12 h. The degradation rate constant was approximately 84 fold greater than
that by Bacillus endophyticus CP1R43, a well-studied 2,4-DCP-degrading bacterial 
strain. The genes encoding 2,4,6-trichlorophenol monooxygenase (TcpA) and
NAD(P)H:FAD reductase (Fre) from strain X1T were cloned and expressed. The
expressed TcpA Fre were purified. The molecular docking of TcpA with DCPs and
point mutation experiments showed that the degradation activity of TcpA was
associated with the length of the hydrogen bond between the substrates and the
amino acids in the active pocket. DCPs were degraded via a stepwise oxidative
dechlorination in a positive relationship between the oxidation ability and the
electron-withdrawing potential of the p-position group. In addition, TcpA has
dual dehalogenation and denitration functions. The results demonstrate that
either strain X1T or TcpA and Fre can effectively dehalogenate dihalophenols,
which can be useful for the treatment of dihalophenols in wastewaters and
remediation of DCP-contaminated environments.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2019.121787 
PMID: 31818658 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

