
1. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2020;92 Suppl 1:e20181381. doi:
10.1590/0001-3765202020181381. Epub 2020 Jul 3.

Isolation and selection of endophytic spore-forming bacteria with plant growth
promoting properties isolated from Ilex paraguariensis St. Hil. (yerba mate).

Laczeski ME(1), Onetto AL(1), Cortese IJ(1), Mallozzi GY(1), Castrillo ML(1),
Bich GÁ(1), Gortari F(1), Zapata PD(1), Otegui MB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biotecnología Misiones "Dra. María Ebe Reca" (InBioMis),
Universidad Nacional de Misiones/UNaM, Argentina.

Yerba mate (Ilex paraguariensis St. Hil.) is a species native to the subtropical 
regions of South America. Despite being an important crop for the region, there
are few studies on the use of microorganisms to improve the growth of seedlings
in the nursery stage. The objective of this study was to isolate spore-forming
endophytic bacteria with plant growth promoting properties associated with yerba 
mate seedlings and determine their phytobeneficial effect under controlled
laboratory conditions. Isolates were selected based on their sporulation capacity
and evaluated for in vitro plant growth promoting properties (nitrogen fixation, 
phosphate solubilization, production of siderophores and synthesis of indolic
compounds). Yerba mate seedlings were inoculated with the most promising
isolates, which were identified via analyses of the sequence of their 16S rDNA
gene as Bacillus circulans (12RS3) and Bacillus altitudinis (19RS3, T5S-T4).
After 120 days plants showed higher root dry weight when inoculated with isolate 
19RS3 and higher shoot dry weight with 19RS3 and T5S-T4. In conclusion, further
studies to determine the ability of these isolates to adapt to the climatic
conditions and to survive amidst the native soil microflora in yerba mate
cultivated native soils, will be crucial for developing such strains as
biofertilizer.

DOI: 10.1590/0001-3765202020181381 
PMID: 32638866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

