
1. Talanta. 2020 Nov 1;219:121315. doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2020.121315. Epub 2020 Jul
1.

Differentiation of meat-related microorganisms using paper-based surface-enhanced
Raman spectroscopy combined with multivariate statistical analysis.

Breuch R(1), Klein D(2), Siefke E(2), Hebel M(3), Herbert U(3), Wickleder C(4),
Kaul P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hochschule Bonn-Rhein-Sieg, University of Applied Sciences, Institute of
Safety and Security Research, von-Liebig-Str. 20, 53359, Rheinbach, Germany.
Electronic address: rene.breuch@h-brs.de.
(2)Hochschule Bonn-Rhein-Sieg, University of Applied Sciences, Institute of
Safety and Security Research, von-Liebig-Str. 20, 53359, Rheinbach, Germany.
(3)Dr. Berns Laboratorium GmbH & Co. KG, Bendschenweg 36, 47506,
Neukirchen-Vluyn, Germany.
(4)University of Siegen, Inorganic Chemistry, Center of Micro- and Nanochemistry 
and Engineering, Faculty of Science and Technology, Adolf-Reichwein-Str., 57068
Siegen, Germany.

Surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) with subsequent chemometric evaluation
was performed for the rapid and non-destructive differentiation of seven
important meat-associated microorganisms, namely Brochothrix thermosphacta DSM
20171T, Pseudomonas fluorescens DSM 4358, Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica sv.
Enteritidis DSM 14221, Listeria monocytogenes DSM 19094, Micrococcus luteus DSM
20030T, Escherichia coli HB101 and Bacillus thuringiensis sv. israelensis DSM
5724. A simple method for collecting spectra from commercial paper-based SERS
substrates without any laborious pre-treatments was used. In order to prepare the
spectroscopic data for classification at genera level with a subsequent
chemometric evaluation consisting of principal component analysis and
discriminant analysis, a data pre-processing method with spike correction and sum
normalisation was performed. Because of the spike correction rather than
exclusion, and therefore the use of a balanced data set, the multivariate
analysis of the data is significantly resilient and meaningful. The analysis
showed that the differentiation of meat-associated microorganisms and thereby the
detection of important meat-related pathogenic bacteria was successful on genera 
level and a cross-validation as well as a classification of ungrouped data showed
promising results, with 99.5% and 97.5%, respectively.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2020.121315 
PMID: 32887055 

