
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jun 30;11:1432. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01432. eCollection 
2020.

Profiling for Bioactive Peptides and Volatiles of Plant Growth Promoting Strains 
of the Bacillus subtilis Complex of Industrial Relevance.

Mülner P(1)(2), Schwarz E(1), Dietel K(1), Junge H(1), Herfort S(3), Weydmann
M(3), Lasch P(3), Cernava T(2), Berg G(2), Vater J(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)ABiTEP GmbH, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Institute of Environmental Biotechnology, Graz University of Technology, Graz,
Austria.
(3)ZBS6: Proteomics and Spectroscopy, Robert Koch-Institut, Berlin, Germany.

Plant growth promoting rhizobacteria attain increasing importance in agriculture 
as biofertilizers and biocontrol agents. These properties significantly depend on
the formation of bioactive compounds produced by such organisms. In our work we
investigated the biosynthetic potential of 13 industrially important strains of
the Bacillus subtilis complex by mass spectrometric methodology. Typing of these 
organisms was performed with MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry followed by
comprehensive profiling of their bioactive peptide products. Volatiles were
determined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Representative products of
the members of the B. subtilis complex investigated in detail were: the surfactin
familiy (surfactins, lichenysins, pumilacidins); the iturin family (iturins,
mycosubtilins and bacillomycins); plantazolicin and the dual lantibiotics
lichenicidins, as well as a wide spectrum of volatiles, such as hydrocarbons
(alkanes/alkenes), alcohols, ketones, sulfur-containing compounds and pyrazines. 
The subcomplexes of the B. subtilis organizational unit; (a) B. subtilis/Bacillus
atrophaeus; (b) B. amyloliquefaciens/B. velezensis; (c) B. licheniformis, and (d)
B. pumilus are equipped with specific sets of these compounds which are the basis
for the evaluation of their biotechnological and agricultural usage. The 13 test 
strains were evaluated in field trials for growth promotion of potato and maize
plants. All of the implemented strains showed efficient growth stimulation of
these plants. The highest effects were obtained with B. velezensis, B. subtilis, 
and B. atrophaeus strains.

Copyright © 2020 Mülner, Schwarz, Dietel, Junge, Herfort, Weydmann, Lasch,
Cernava, Berg and Vater.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01432 
PMCID: PMC7338577
PMID: 32695084 

