
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Sep 29;10(1):16017. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-72457-x.

A lectin-coupled porous silicon-based biosensor: label-free optical detection of 
bacteria in a real-time mode.

Yaghoubi M(1), Rahimi F(2), Negahdari B(3), Rezayan AH(1), Shafiekhani A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Nanobiotechnoloy, Department of Life Science Engineering, Faculty 
of New Sciences and Technologies, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Division of Nanobiotechnoloy, Department of Life Science Engineering, Faculty 
of New Sciences and Technologies, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.
rahimi.f@ut.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Advanced Technologies in
Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)School of Physics, Institute for Research in Fundamental Sciences, Tehran,
Iran.

Accuracy and speed of detection, along with technical and instrumental
simplicity, are indispensable for the bacterial detection methods. Porous silicon
(PSi) has unique optical and chemical properties which makes it a good candidate 
for biosensing applications. On the other hand, lectins have specific
carbohydrate-binding properties and are inexpensive compared to popular
antibodies. We propose a lectin-conjugated PSi-based biosensor for label-free and
real-time detection of Escherichia coli (E. coli) and Staphylococcus aureus (S.
aureus) by reflectometric interference Fourier transform spectroscopy (RIFTS). We
modified meso-PSiO2 (10-40 nm pore diameter) with three lectins of ConA
(Concanavalin A), WGA (Wheat Germ Agglutinin), and UEA (Ulex europaeus
agglutinin) with various carbohydrate specificities, as bioreceptor. The results 
showed that ConA and WGA have the highest binding affinity for E. coli and S.
aureus respectively and hence can effectively detect them. This was confirmed by 
6.8% and 7.8% decrease in peak amplitude of fast Fourier transform (FFT) spectra 
(at 105 cells mL-1 concentration). A limit of detection (LOD) of about 103
cells mL-1 and a linear response range of 103 to 105 cells mL-1 were observed for
both ConA-E. coli and WGA-S. aureus interaction platforms that are comparable to 
the other reports in the literature. Dissimilar response patterns among lectins
can be attributed to the different bacterial cell wall structures. Further
assessments were carried out by applying the biosensor for the detection of
Klebsiella aerogenes and Bacillus subtilis bacteria. The overall obtained results
reinforced the conjecture that the WGA and ConA have a stronger interaction with 
Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, respectively. Therefore, it seems that 
specific lectins can be suggested for bacterial Gram-typing or even serotyping.
These observations were confirmed by the principal component analysis (PCA)
model.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-72457-x 
PMCID: PMC7525577
PMID: 32994483 

