
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Jun;77(6):918-923. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-01878-8. Epub
2020 Jan 22.

Hitherto Unknown Terpene Synthase Organization in Taxol-Producing Endophytic
Bacteria Isolated from Marine Macroalgae.

Subramanian M(1), Marudhamuthu M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbial Technology, School of Biological Sciences, Madurai
Kamaraj University, Madurai, Tamilnadu, India.
(2)Department of Microbial Technology, School of Biological Sciences, Madurai
Kamaraj University, Madurai, Tamilnadu, India. murubio2001@yahoo.com.

Taxol is a successful anti-cancer drug, which extensively studied in Taxus spp.
However, microbial endophytes also reported as taxol producers, and especially
fungal endophytes extensively studied for the taxol biosynthesis pathway.
Although it was well considered, the taxol biosynthesis pathway remains
undisclosed since its discovery in bacteria. To decipher this gap, we isolated
and identified the endophytic bacteria such as Bacillus flexus strain DMTMMB08,
Bacillus licheniformis strain DMTMMB10, and Oceanobacillus picturae strain
DMTMMB24, which are unprecedented for taxol production. Subsequently, the genome 
annotation of these bacteria exhibited the isoprene biosynthesis pathway and
terpene synthase profile. Feasibly, this is the very first report on
taxol-producing endophytic bacteria from the non-Taxus host and solitary
investigation on its genome analysis. The genomic insight into the bacterial
system for taxol biosynthesis leads to understanding the terpene synthesis and
evolution. This piece of work could expand our perception of the diversity of
terpenes and their related natural products.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-01878-8 
PMID: 31970484 

