
1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2020 Sep 2;207:111214. doi: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.111214.
[Epub ahead of print]

Impacts of Bt rice on non-target organisms assessed by the hazard quotient (HQ).

Dang C(1), Zhou X(2), Sun C(1), Wang F(1), Peng Y(3), Ye G(4).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Rice Biology & Ministry of Agricultural and Rural
Affairs Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology of Crop Pathogens and Insects,
Institute of Insect Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058, Zhejiang
Province, China.
(2)Jinhua Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Jinhua, 321017, Zhejiang Province,
China.
(3)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, Institute
of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100094,
China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Rice Biology & Ministry of Agricultural and Rural
Affairs Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology of Crop Pathogens and Insects,
Institute of Insect Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058, Zhejiang
Province, China. Electronic address: chu@zju.edu.cn.

The potential risk of Bt (Bacillus thuringiensis) crops on non-target organisms
(NTOs) has drawn a lot of public concerns. Despite a series of risk assessments
of Bt crops on NTOs has been conducted, a quantitative approach which could
support a precise judgment of their safety is required. In the present work,
hazard quotient (HQ) was applied in the safety evaluation of three Bt rice events
(Cry1Ab, Cry1C and Cry2Aa rice) on NTOs. Eight NTOs in different functional
guilds associated with Bt rice were selected to conduct the tests. The results
showed that the HQs of three Bt rice events for eight NTOs were all below the
trigger value 1, while the HQ of Cry1Ab rice for one target pest Chilo
suppressalis was three times higher than 1. Our results assured the reliability
of the HQ and indicated that the three Bt rice events would pose no risks to the 
eight NTOs. Further testing of three Bt proteins on biological parameters of one 
NTO Nasonia virtipennis under no observed adverse effect concentration (NOAEC)
confirmed the robustness of HQ assessment. We recommend that the HQ could be
applied in tier-1 risk assessments of Bt crops on NTOs as a reference data
standard, which would provide more clear and credible safety information of
transgenic crops for the public and policy makers.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.111214 
PMID: 32890949 

