
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Sep 19;149:104509. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104509. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Antifungal evaluation of fengycin isoforms isolated from Bacillus
amyloliquefaciens PPL against Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici.

Kang BR(1), Park JS(2), Jung WJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Environmentally-Friendly Agriculture, Chonnam National
University, Gwangju, 61186, Republic of Korea.
(2)International Analysis Institute, Naju, 58325, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Agricultural Chemistry, Institute of Environmentally-Friendly
Agriculture, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Chonnam National
University, Gwangju, 61186, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
woojung@jnu.ac.kr.

Bacillus amyloliquefaciens PPL is known to have a broad spectrum antifungal
activity against plant pathogenic fungi. We focused on the cyclic lipopeptides
(CLPs) extracted from the culture broth that are known to promote the ability and
the efficiency of B. amyloliquefaciens PPL to control fungal diseases in pepper
and tomato. In this study, the PPL strain exhibited enhanced culture yield and
increased production of fengycin lipopeptides upon lecithin supplementation. The 
purified iturin A fraction from strain PPL exhibited higher antifungal activity
(73 - 80%) against pepper anthracnose than fengycin fraction in vitro and in
vivo. However, the control of tomato Fusarium wilt by the PPL strain was mainly
attributed to fengycin lipopeptides. A comparison of liquid chromatography-mass
spectrometry (LC-MS) and LC-tandem MS analysis of the filtrate, we found that the
antifungal compounds against Fusarium wilt present in the strain PPL culture
filtrate were a series of isoforms of fengycin (type F1, F2, and F3). The
purified fengycin F1 type showed better antifungal activity against Fusarium wilt
compared the other isoforms. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first
study to report the antifungal activity of fengycin isoform types in the context 
of Fusarium wilt. The CLPs produced by the PPL strain are potential candidates
for controlling fungal disease in tomato and pepper plants.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104509 
PMID: 32956793 

