
1. J Phys Chem B. 2020 Aug 20;124(33):7176-7183. doi: 10.1021/acs.jpcb.0c03896. Epub
2020 Aug 7.

Characterizing the Hydration Properties of Proton Binding Sites in the ATP
Synthase c-Rings of Bacillus Species.

Krah A(1), Marzinek JK(1), Bond PJ(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Bioinformatics Institute, Agency for Science, Technology and Research
(A*STAR), 30 Biopolis Street, #07-01 Matrix, Singapore 138671.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, National University of Singapore, 14
Science Drive 4, Singapore 117543.

The membrane-embedded domain of ATP synthases contains the c-ring, which
translocates ions across the membrane, and its resultant rotation is coupled to
ATP synthesis in the extramembranous domain. During rotation, the c-ring becomes 
accessible on both sides of the lipid bilayer to solvent via channels connected
to the other membrane-embedded component, the a subunit, and thereby allows the
ion to be released into the solvent environment. In recent times, many
experimental structures of c-rings from different species have been solved. In
some of these, a water molecule with a proposed "structural role" has been
identified within the c-ring ion binding site, but in general, the requirement
for high resolution to resolve specific water densities complicates their
interpretation. In the present study, we use molecular dynamics (MD) simulations 
and rigorous free energy calculations to characterize the dynamics and energetics
of a water molecule within the ion binding site of the c-ring from Bacillus
pseudofirmus OF4, in its wild type (WT) and P51A mutant forms, along with the
c-ring from thermophilic Bacillus PS3. Our data suggest that a water molecule
stably binds to the P51A mutant, as well as helping to identify a bound water
molecule in Bacillus PS3 whose presence was previously overlooked due to the
limited resolution of the structural data. Sequence analysis further identifies a
novel conserved sequence motif that is likely required to harbor a water molecule
for stable ion coordination in the binding site of such proteins.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcb.0c03896 
PMID: 32687713 

