
1. PLoS One. 2020 Jul 2;15(7):e0235560. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0235560.
eCollection 2020.

Effects of woody forages on biodiversity and bioactivity of aerobic culturable
gut bacteria of tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus).

Wu F(1)(2), Chen B(1)(2), Liu S(1)(2), Xia X(1)(2), Gao L(1)(2), Zhang X(1)(2),
Pan Q(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Joint Laboratory of Guangdong Province and Hong Kong Region on Marine
Bioresource Conservation and Exploitation, College of Marine Sciences, South
China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern Agriculture, Guangzhou, China.

The present study investigated the effects of four woody forages (Moringa
oleifera Lam (MOL), fermented MOL, Folium mori (FM) and fermented FM) on
biodiversity and bioactivity of aerobic culturable gut bacteria of tilapia
(Oreochromis niloticus) by a traditional culture-dependent method. A total of 133
aerobic culturable isolates were recovered and identified from the gut of
tilapia, belonging to 35 species of 12 genera in three bacterial phyla
(Firmicutes, Actinobacteria and Proteobacteria). Among them, 6 bacterial isolates
of Bacillus baekryungensis, Bacillus marisflavi, Bacillus pumilus, Bacillus
methylotrophicus, Proteus mirabilis and Pseudomonas taiwanensis were isolated
from all the five experimental groups. The Bray-Curtis analysis showed that the
bacterial communities among the five groups displayed obvious differences. In
addition, this result of bioactivity showed that approximate 43% of the aerobic
culturable gut bacteria of tilapia displayed a distinct anti-bacterial activity
against at least one of four fish pathogens Streptococcus agalactiae,
Streptococcus iniae, Micrococcus luteus and Vibrio parahemolyticus. Furthermore, 
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens and Streptomyces rutgersensis displayed strong
activity against all four indicator bacteria. These results contribute to our
understanding of the intestinal bacterial diversity of tilapia when fed with
woody forages and how certain antimicrobial bacteria flourished under such diets.
This can aid in the further exploitation of new diets and probiotic sources in
aquaculture.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0235560 
PMCID: PMC7332033
PMID: 32614907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

