
1. Water Sci Technol. 2019 Nov;80(9):1623-1632. doi: 10.2166/wst.2020.005.

Biodegradation of alkali lignin by Bacillus flexus RMWW II: analyzing performance
for abatement of rice mill wastewater.

Kumar A(1), Priyadarshinee R(2), Singha S(1), Sengupta B(3), Roy A(1), Dasgupta
D(2), Mandal T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of Technology Durgapur,
Mahatma Gandhi Avenue, Durgapur, West Bengal 713209, India E-mail:
prof.tamalmandal@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Technology Durgapur,
Mahatma Gandhi Avenue, Durgapur, West Bengal 713209, India.
(3)The Howard P. Isermann Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering,
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 110 8th St., Troy, New York 12180, USA.

A potential bacterium Bacillus flexus RMWW II has been isolated from rice mill
effluent, and examined for its decolorizing potential for lignin-mimicking dyes. 
The biodegradation of alkali lignin by the rod-shaped, Gram-positive, oxidase and
catalase-positive Bacillus flexus RMWW II bacteria is due to its uptake of lignin
as the sole carbon source. The lignin degradation was 100% at a lignin
concentration of 50 mg L-1 but the degradation reduced to 20% at 400 mg L-1. The 
bacterial-mediated biodegradation of alkali lignin was suitably explained by the 
Edward kinetics model with a maximal specific biodegradation rate (qmax) of 0.056
h-1 and true specific biodegradation rate (q*) of 0.042 h-1. The non-toxic nature
of the metabolites of alkali lignin after bacterial degradation was illustrated
by phytotoxicity studies. This bacterium was utilized to treat complex rice mill 
wastewater, as lignin is one of the major components of the effluent. A
considerable reduction of 84% of chemical oxygen demand (COD) was observed in a
batch reactor in 70 h of operation. The bacterial treatment results for the
actual rice mill effluent indicate that Bacillus flexus RMWW II could be a
promising agent for microbial remediation of lignin-laden raw rice mill
wastewater.

DOI: 10.2166/wst.2020.005 
PMCID: wst_2020_005
PMID: 32039894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

