
1. J Photochem Photobiol B. 2020 Jun;207:111882. doi:
10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2020.111882. Epub 2020 Apr 13.

Fabrication and structural of the Ag2S-MgO/graphene oxide nanocomposites with
high photocatalysis and antimicrobial activities.

Wang H(1), Li G(2), Fakhri A(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy, Jiamusi University, Jiamusi 154007, China.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Jiamusi University, Jiamusi 154007, China. Electronic
address: lgz1163@163.com.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Nano Smart Science Institute, Tehran, Iran; Young
Researchers and Elites Club, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad
University, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: Ali.fakhri88@yahoo.com.

Silver sulfide‑magnesium oxide/graphene oxide (Ag2S-MgO/GO) nanocomposite was
prepared via sol-gel/ultrasound method to modify the photo-degradation
performance for rhodamine B decontamination under visible and UV light.
Analytical studies were performed to distinguish the properties such as
structure, morphology, and elements of prepared materials. The average
crystallite size of MgO, Ag2S-MgO and Ag2S-MgO/GO is distinguished to be 24.2,
29.3 and 33.1 nm, respectively. The Band gap MgO, Ag2S-MgO and Ag2S-MgO/GO is
4.08, 3.25 and 2.82 eV, respectively. Ag2S-MgO/GO nanocomposites illustrated the 
highest photo-degradation rate of rhodamine B (RhB) under UV light (98.8%) and
visible light (64.8%) during in 60 min. In this project, the process parameter of
pH and time were investigated for RhB degradation activity influence. The
suggested mechanisms for the enhanced photo-degradation of RhB by Ag2S-MgO/GO
nanocomposites under light irradiation due to enhanced charge transfer efficiency
via decreasing band gap amount; reduced e-/h+ recombination of MgO with the Ag2S 
crystal and an enhanced removal efficiency with the supported on graphene oxide. 
Examination of the antibacterial and antifungal properties of the prepared
nano-materials were conducted with Bacillus vallismortis, Escherichia coli,
Aspergillus flavus and Trichoderma viride. The beneficial antibacterial and
antifungal performance of the Ag2S-MgO/GO nanocomposites was further tested by a 
great reduction in the number of bacteria and fungi medium with the addition of
the Ag2S-MgO/GO nanocomposites.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2020.111882 
PMID: 32361282 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

