
1. Animals (Basel). 2020 Sep 14;10(9). pii: E1649. doi: 10.3390/ani10091649.

Evaluation of Bacillus licheniformis-Fermented Feed Additive as an Antibiotic
Substitute: Effect on the Growth Performance, Diarrhea Incidence, and Cecal
Microbiota in Weaning Piglets.

Lin KH(1), Yu YH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Animal Science, National Ilan University,
Yilan 26047, Taiwan.

This study investigated the potential of a Bacillus licheniformis-fermented feed 
additive (BLF) as an antibiotic substitute in weaning piglets. Ninety-six
crossbred piglets were randomly allotted into four treatments with three
replicate pens per treatment and eight pigs per pen. Piglets were fed diets as
follows: a basal diet as control, a basal diet supplemented with bacitracin (30
mg/kg of bacitracin methylene disalicylate), a basal diet supplemented with BLF
(1 g/kg of the Bacillus licheniformis-fermented feed additive), and a basal diet 
supplemented with bacitracin and BLF (15 mg/kg of bacitracin methylene
disalicylate and 0.5 g/kg of the Bacillus licheniformis-fermented feed additive).
The results showed that replacing all or half the bacitracin with BLF both
reduced the incidence of diarrhea in weaning piglets from day 1 to 14. Principal 
coordinates analysis and a species abundance heat map showed that distinct
clusters were formed between groups. Replacing all the bacitracin with BLF
reduced bacterial evenness in the cecal digesta of weaning piglets, while the
inhibitory effect on bacterial evenness was reversed in the group treated with
bacitracin in combination with BLF. These results indicated that the half
replacement of bacitracin with BLF was able to decrease the incidence of diarrhea
and modify cecal microbiota composition in weaning piglets, suggesting that a
Bacillus licheniformis-fermented feed additive has good potential as a suitable
alternative to antibiotics use in the swine industry.

DOI: 10.3390/ani10091649 
PMID: 32937883 

