
1. Anim Nutr. 2020 Sep;6(3):372-378. doi: 10.1016/j.aninu.2020.03.011. Epub 2020 Jul
6.

Bacillus subtilis ANSB01G culture alleviates oxidative stress and cell apoptosis 
induced by dietary zearalenone in first-parity gestation sows.

Zhou J(1), Ao X(1), Lei Y(1), Ji C(1), Ma Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition, China Agricultural University,
Beijing, 100193, China.

This study was conducted to evaluate the alleviation of Bacillus subtilis ANSB01G
culture as zearalenone (ZEA) biodegradation agent on oxidative stress, cell
apoptosis and fecal ZEA residue in the first parity gestation sows during the
gestation. A total of 80 first-parity gilts (Yorkshire × Landrace) were randomly 
allocated to 4 dietary treatments with 20 replications per treatment and one gilt
per replicate. The dietary treatments were as follows: CO (positive control); MO 
(negative control, ZEA level at 246 μg/kg diet); COA (CO + B. subtilis ANSB01G
culture with 2 × 109 CFU/kg diet); MOA (MO + ZEA level at 260 μg/kg
diet + B. subtilis ANSB01G culture with 2 × 109 CFU/kg diet). The experiment
lasted for the whole gestation period of sows. Results showed that feeding the
diet naturally contaminated with low-dose ZEA caused an increase of cell
apoptosis in organ and the residual ZEA in feces as well as a decrease of
antioxidant function in serum. The addition of B. subtilis ANSB01G culture in the
diets can effectively alleviate the status of oxidative stress and cell apoptosis
induced by ZEA in diets of gestation sows, as well as decrease the content of
residual ZEA in feces.

© 2020 Chinese Association of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine. Production 
and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aninu.2020.03.011 
PMCID: PMC7503068
PMID: 33005771 

