
1. Microb Cell Fact. 2020 Jul 20;19(1):145. doi: 10.1186/s12934-020-01402-4.

Production and characterization of surfactin-like biosurfactant produced by novel
strain Bacillus nealsonii S2MT and it's potential for oil contaminated soil
remediation.

Phulpoto IA(1), Yu Z(2), Hu B(1), Wang Y(3), Ndayisenga F(1), Li J(1), Liang
H(1), Qazi MA(4).

Author information: 
(1)College of Resources and Environment, University of Chinese Academy of
Sciences, 19 A Yuquan Road, Beijing, 100049, People's Republic of China.
(2)College of Resources and Environment, University of Chinese Academy of
Sciences, 19 A Yuquan Road, Beijing, 100049, People's Republic of China.
yuzs@ucas.ac.cn.
(3)Yanshan Earth Critical Zone and Surface Fluxes Research Station, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, No. 380 Huaibei Town, Huairou District, Beijing, 101408,
People's Republic of China.
(4)Institute of Microbiology, Faculty of Natural Science, Shah Abdul Latif
University, Khairpur Mirκs-66020, Sindh, Pakistan.

BACKGROUND: Biosurfactants, being highly biodegradable, ecofriendly and
multifunctional compounds have wide applications in various industrial sectors
including environmental bioremediation. Surfactin, a member of lipopeptide
family, which is considered as one of the most powerful biosurfactants due to its
excellent emulsifying activities as well as environmental and therapeutic
applications. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the newly
isolated bacterial strain S2MT for production of surfactin-like biosurfactants
and their potential applications for oil-contaminated soil remediation.
RESULTS: In this study, the strain S2MT was isolated from lake sediment and was
identified as Bacillus nealsonii based on transmitted electron microscopy (TEM)
and 16S rRNA ribo-typing. The strain S2MT produced biosurfactant that reduced the
surface tension (34.15 ± 0.6 mN/m) and displayed excellent emulsifying potential 
for kerosene (55 ± 0.3%). Additionally, the maximum biosurfactant product yield
of 1300 mg/L was achieved when the composition of the culture medium was
optimized through response surface methodology (RSM). Results showed that 2%
glycerol and 0.1% NH4NO3 were the best carbon/nitrogen substrates for
biosurfactant production. The parameters such as temperature (30 °C), pH (8),
agitation (100 rpm), NH4NO3 (0.1%) and NaCl (0.5%) displayed most significant
contribution towards surface tension reduction that resulted in enhanced
biosurfactant yield. Moreover, the extracted biosurfactants were found to be
highly stable at environmental factors such as salinity, pH and temperature
variations. The biosurfactants were characterized as cyclic lipopeptides relating
to surfactin-like isoforms (C13-C15) using thin-layer chromatography (TLC), Ultra
high performance liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS). The
crude biosurfactant product displayed up to 43.6 ± 0.08% and 46.7 ± 0.01%
remediation of heavy engine-oil contaminated soil at 10 and 40 mg/L
concentrations, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Present study expands the paradigm of surfactin-like biosurfactants
produced by novel isolate Bacillus nealsonii S2MT for achieving efficient and
environmentally acceptable soil remediation as compared to synthetic surfactants.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-020-01402-4 
PMCID: PMC7372866
PMID: 32690027 

