
1. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2020 Jul 10. doi: 10.1002/bit.27488. [Epub ahead of print]

Genome-scale modeling for Bacillus coagulans to understand the metabolic
characteristics.

Chen Y(1), Sun Y(1), Liu Z(1), Dong F(1), Li Y(1), Wang Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of
Science and Technology, Shanghai, China.

Lactic acid is widely used in many industries, especially in the production of
poly-lactic acid. Bacillus coagulans is a promising lactic acid producer in
industrial fermentation due to its thermophilic property. In this study, we
developed the first genome-scale metabolic model (GEM) of B. coagulans iBag597,
together with an enzyme-constrained model ec-iBag597. We measured strain-specific
biomass composition and integrated the data into a biomass equation. Then, we
validated iBag597 against experimental data generated in this study, including
amino acid requirements and carbon source utilization, showing that simulations
were generally consistent with the experimental results. Subsequently, we carried
out chemostats to investigate the effects of specific growth rate and culture pH 
on metabolism of B. coagulans. Meanwhile, we used iBag597 to estimate the
intracellular metabolic fluxes for those conditions. The results showed that B.
coagulans was capable of generating ATP via multiple pathways, and switched among
them in response to various conditions. With ec-iBag597, we estimated the protein
cost and protein efficiency for each ATP-producing pathway to investigate the
switches. Our models pave the way for systems biology of B. coagulans, and our
findings suggest that maintaining a proper growth rate and selecting an optimal
pH are beneficial for lactate fermentation.

Â© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.27488 
PMID: 32648961 

