
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Sep;202(7):1785-1794. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-01891-2. Epub 
2020 May 7.

Evaluation of biocontrol Bacillus species on plant growth promotion and
systemic-induced resistant potential against bacterial and fungal wilt-causing
pathogens.

Jinal NH(1), Amaresan N(2).

Author information: 
(1)C. G. Bhakta Institute of Biotechnology, Uka Tarsadia University, Maliba
Campus, Bardoli, Surat, Gujarat, 394 350, India.
(2)C. G. Bhakta Institute of Biotechnology, Uka Tarsadia University, Maliba
Campus, Bardoli, Surat, Gujarat, 394 350, India. na.amaresan@gmail.com.

Bacillus spp. have a wide range of activities in the biocontrol potential against
various phytopathogens. This study focuses on the biocontrol potential of two
species belonging to the same genera, as Bacillus subtilis (SSR2I) and Bacillus
flexus (AIKDL) have contrasting activity under in vivo and in vitro conditions.
In this study, two medicinal plants-associated bacteria showing antagonistic
activity against wilt-causing pathogens were selected and identified as B.
subtilis (SSR2I) and B. flexus (AIKDL) based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Crude
extracts of these bacteria showed that chloroform extracts of AIKDL, and ethyl
acetate extraction of SSR2I showed effective potential inhibition of both the
wilt-causing pathogens in the well-diffusion method. PCR-based detection of
antimicrobial peptide genes revealed the presence of five genes in B. subtilis
and none in B. flexus. On the basis of in vivo analysis, the isolate SSR2I showed
reduced disease incidence and enhanced biocontrol efficiency against Ralstonia
solanacearum and Fusarium oxysporum compared with AIKDL and control plants.
Further, the isolates SSR2I also enhanced the induced systemic resistance (ISR)
against both the pathogens compared to the control. However, the isolate AIKDL
showed enhanced ISR against F. oxysporum-treated plants, but not against R.
solanacearum-treated plants. The results indicated that even though the isolates 
had strong antagonistic potential under in vitro conditions, their biocontrol
efficiency differed in in vivo condition. On the basis of the overall
performance, the isolate SSR2I could be formulated as biocontrol agents against
both the wilt-causing pathogens tested in this study.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-01891-2 
PMID: 32382765  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

