
1. Orig Life Evol Biosph. 2020 Jul 2. doi: 10.1007/s11084-020-09597-7. [Epub ahead
of print]

Survival of the Halophilic Archaeon Halovarius luteus after Desiccation,
Simulated Martian UV Radiation and Vacuum in Comparison to Bacillus atrophaeus.

Feshangsaz N(1), Semsarha F(2), Tackallou SH(3), Nazmi K(4), Monaghan EP(5),
Riedo A(5), van Loon JJWA(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, and Academic Centre for Dentistry Amsterdam
(ACTA) Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery/Pathology, Amsterdam Movement
Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Gustav Mahlerlaan 3004, 1081 LA,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. n.feshangsaz@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biophysics, Mim Daroo Pharmaceutical Co., Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Biology, Central Tehran Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tehran,
Iran.
(4)Academic Centre for Dentistry Amsterdam (ACTA) Department of Oral
Biochemistry, ACTA-Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Laboratory for Astrophysics, Leiden Observatory, Leiden University, Leiden,
The Netherlands.
(6)Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, and Academic Centre for Dentistry Amsterdam
(ACTA) Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery/Pathology, Amsterdam Movement
Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Gustav Mahlerlaan 3004, 1081 LA,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)European Space Agency (ESA), Technology Center (ESTEC), TEC-MMG lab,
Noordwijk, The Netherlands.

Extraterrestrial environments influence the biochemistry of organisms through a
variety of factors, including high levels of radiation and vacuum, temperature
extremes and a lack of water and nutrients. A wide variety of terrestrial
microorganisms, including those counted amongst the most ancient inhabitants of
Earth, can cope with high levels of salinity, extreme temperatures, desiccation
and high levels of radiation. Key among these are the haloarchaea, considered
particularly relevant for astrobiological studies due to their ability to thrive 
in hypersaline environments. In this study, a novel haloarchaea isolated from
Urmia Salt Lake, Iran, Halovarius luteus strain DA50T, was exposed to varying
levels of simulated extraterrestrial conditions and compared to that of the
bacteria Bacillus atrophaeus. Bacillus atrophaeus was selected for comparison due
to its well-described resistance to extreme conditions and its ability to produce
strong spore structures. Thin films were produced to investigate viability
without the protective influence of cell multi-layers. Late exponential phase
cultures of Hvr. luteus and B. atrophaeus were placed in brine and phosphate
buffered saline media, respectively. The solutions were allowed to evaporate and 
cells were encapsulated and exposed to radiation, desiccation and vacuum
conditions, and their post-exposure viability was studied by the Most Probable
Number method. The protein profile using High Performance Liquid Chromatography
and Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization bench top reflector
time-of-flight are explored after vacuum and UV-radiation exposure. Results
showed that the change in viability of the spore-forming bacteria B. atrophaeus
was only minor whereas Hvr. luteus demonstrated a range of viability under
different conditions. At the peak radiation flux of 105Â J/m2 under nitrogen flow 
and after two weeks of desiccation, Hvr. luteus demonstrated the greatest
decrease in viability. This study further expands our understanding of the
boundary conditions of astrobiologically relevant organisms in the harsh space
environment.

DOI: 10.1007/s11084-020-09597-7 
PMID: 32617792 

