
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Aug 29. pii: S0141-8130(20)34300-2. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.08.204. [Epub ahead of print]

Thermostable and alkalistable exopolygalacturonase of Bacillus pumilus DCSR1:
Characteristics and applicability.

Sharma DC(1), Satyanarayana T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, DSMNR University, Mohaan Road, Lucknow 226 017,
India.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences & Engineering, Netaji Subhas University of
Technology, Azad Hind Fauj Marg, New Delhi 110078, India. Electronic address:
tsnarayana@gmail.com.

The bioactive form of thermostable and alkali stable pectinase of Bacillus
pumilus dcsr1 is a homodimer of the molecular mass of 60 kDa with a pI of 4.6.
The enzyme is optimally active at 50 °C and pH 10.5, and its Michaelis constant
(Km), maximum rate of reaction (Vmax), activation energy (Ea), and temperature
quotient (Q10) values (for citrus pectin) are 0.29 mg mL-1, 116 μmole mg-1 min-1,
74.73 KJmol-1 and 1.57, respectively. The enzyme has a shelf life of one and a
half years at room temperature as well as 4 °C. The activity of the enzyme is
stimulated by Mn2+ and Ca2+ and inhibited by Hg+, Cd2+, Co2+, Zn2+, Fe2+, Pb2+,
EDTA and urea to a varied extent. The conformational studies of the enzyme
revealed a high β-sheet content in the bioactive dimer, and high α-helix in the
inactive monomer. The Circular Dichroism (CD) spectra of the dimer in the
presence of inhibitors suggested a marked decrease in β-sheet, and a significant 
increase in α-helix, suggesting a key role of β-sheets in the enzyme catalysis.
Based on the end product analysis, the enzyme is an exopolygalacturonase with a
unique ability of transglycosylation. When ramie fibers were treated with the
enzyme, removal of gummy material (pectin) was visible, confirming its
applicability in the degumming process.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.08.204 
PMID: 32871119 

