
1. J Biosci Bioeng. 2020 Sep 19. pii: S1389-1723(20)30324-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jbiosc.2020.08.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Phosphorylation of levan by microwave-assisted synthesis enhanced anticancer
ability.

Huang TY(1), Huang MY(2), Tsai CK(3), Su WT(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Mackay Memorial Hospital, Taipei 10449,
Taiwan.
(2)Fisheries Research Institute, Council of Agriculture, Keelung 20246, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology, National Taipei
University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology, National Taipei
University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: f10549@ntut.edu.tw.

Levan is an exopolysaccharide produced by Bacillus licheniformis (strain FRI
MY-55) that shows promising pharmacological activity. Phosphorylation is a
chemical modification that can increase the biological and antioxidant properties
of levan. In this study, levan was phosphorylated by microwave-assisted synthesis
to achieve a degree of substitution of 0.29. The hydroxyl radical scavenging
activity of microwave-assisted phosphorylated levan (microwave P) increased
significantly (6-fold) over native levan; this activity was only slightly lower
than vitamin C. Other free radical scavenging and reducing power tests revealed
that Microwave P activity was increased by 30-40%. Microwave P inhibited the
proliferation of HCT-116 and A549 cancer cell lines more readily than native
levan with an IC50 of 1.03 mg/mL and 1.38 mg/mL for HCT-116 and A549 cells,
respectively. Cells treated with native levan and its derivatives remained in the
sub-G1 phase according to cell cycle analysis, whereas Microwave P treatment
increased the proportion of cells undergoing apoptosis. Furthermore, Microwave P 
effectively upregulated pro-apoptosis marker Bax and downregulated anti-apoptosis
marker Bcl-2, in addition to inducing the expression of caspase-9 and caspase-3. 
These findings show that levan phosphorylated via microwave-assisted synthesis
showed increased antioxidant and antitumor activity over native levan or levan
phosphorylated via traditional long-term heating. In particular, Microwave P
possesses antiproliferative activity and can induce apoptosis through
mitochondrial pathways in cancerous cells.

Copyright © 2020 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier B.V.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2020.08.007 
PMID: 32962963 

