
1. PLoS Pathog. 2020 Sep 24;16(9):e1008826. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1008826.
eCollection 2020 Sep.

The C. elegans GATA transcription factor elt-2 mediates distinct transcriptional 
responses and opposite infection outcomes towards different Bacillus
thuringiensis strains.

Zárate-Potes A(1), Yang W(1), Pees B(1), Schalkowski R(1), Segler P(1), Andresen 
B(1), Haase D(1), Nakad R(1), Rosenstiel P(2), Tetreau G(3), Colletier JP(3),
Schulenburg H(1)(4), Dierking K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Evolutionary Ecology and Genetics,
Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Kiel, Germany.
(2)Institute for Clinical Molecular Biology (IKMB),
Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Kiel, Germany.
(3)Univ. Grenoble Alpes, CNRS, CEA, Institut de Biologie Structurale, Grenoble,
France.
(4)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, Ploen, Germany.

The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has been extensively used as a model for the 
study of innate immune responses against bacterial pathogens. While it is well
established that the worm mounts distinct transcriptional responses to different 
bacterial species, it is still unclear in how far it can fine-tune its response
to different strains of a single pathogen species, especially if the strains vary
in virulence and infection dynamics. To rectify this knowledge gap, we
systematically analyzed the C. elegans response to two strains of Bacillus
thuringiensis (Bt), MYBt18247 (Bt247) and MYBt18679 (Bt679), which produce
different pore forming toxins (PFTs) and vary in infection dynamics. We combined 
host transcriptomics with cytopathological characterizations and identified both 
a common and also a differentiated response to the two strains, the latter
comprising almost 10% of the infection responsive genes. Functional genetic
analyses revealed that the AP-1 component gene jun-1 mediates the common response
to both Bt strains. In contrast, the strain-specific response is mediated by the 
C. elegans GATA transcription factor ELT-2, a homolog of Drosophila SERPENT and
vertebrate GATA4-6, and a known master regulator of intestinal responses in the
nematode. elt-2 RNAi knockdown decreased resistance to Bt679, but remarkably,
increased survival on Bt247. The elt-2 silencing-mediated increase in survival
was characterized by reduced intestinal tissue damage despite a high pathogen
burden and might thus involve increased tolerance. Additional functional genetic 
analyses confirmed the involvement of distinct signaling pathways in the C.
elegans defense response: the p38-MAPK pathway acts either directly with or in
parallel to elt-2 in mediating resistance to Bt679 infection but is not required 
for protection against Bt247. Our results further suggest that the elt-2
silencing-mediated increase in survival on Bt247 is multifactorial, influenced by
the nuclear hormone receptors NHR-99 and NHR-193, and may further involve lipid
metabolism and detoxification. Our study highlights that the nematode C. elegans 
with its comparatively simple immune defense system is capable of generating a
differentiated response to distinct strains of the same pathogen species.
Importantly, our study provides a molecular insight into the diversity of
biological processes that are influenced by a single master regulator and jointly
determine host survival after pathogen infection.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1008826 
PMCID: PMC7513999
PMID: 32970778 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

