
1. Sci Rep. 2019 Oct 8;9(1):14451. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-51052-9.

The Role of a Crystallographically Unresolved Cytoplasmic Loop in Stabilizing the
Bacterial Membrane Insertase YidC2.

Harkey T(1), Govind Kumar V(1), Hettige J(1), Tabari SH(1), Immadisetty K(1),
Moradi M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Arkansas,
Fayetteville, Arkansas, 72701, United States.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Arkansas,
Fayetteville, Arkansas, 72701, United States. moradi@uark.edu.

YidC, a bacterial member of the YidC/Alb3/Oxa1 insertase family, mediates
membrane protein assembly and insertion. Cytoplasmic loops are known to have
functional significance in membrane proteins such as YidC. Employing
microsecond-level molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, we show that the
crystallographically unresolved C2 loop plays a crucial role in the structural
dynamics of Bacillus halodurans YidC2. We have modeled the C2 loop and used all- 
atom MD simulations to investigate the structural dynamics of YidC2 in its apo
form, both with and without the C2 loop. The C2 loop was found to stabilize the
entire protein and particularly the C1 region. C2 was also found to stabilize the
alpha-helical character of the C-terminal region. Interestingly, the highly polar
or charged lipid head groups of the simulated membranes were found to interact
with and stabilize the C2 loop. These findings demonstrate that the
crystallographically unresolved loops of membrane proteins could be important for
the stabilization of the protein despite the apparent lack of structure, which
could be due to the absence of the relevant lipids to stabilize them in
crystallographic conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-51052-9 
PMCID: PMC6783614
PMID: 31595020 

