
1. J Biol Chem. 2020 Mar 27;295(13):4316-4326. doi: 10.1074/jbc.RA119.011591. Epub
2019 Dec 22.

Structure and function of Bs164 β-mannosidase from Bacteroides salyersiae the
founding member of glycoside hydrolase family GH164.

Armstrong Z(1), Davies GJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Structural Biology Laboratory, The University of
York, York YO10 5DD, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Structural Biology Laboratory, The University of
York, York YO10 5DD, United Kingdom gideon.davies@york.ac.uk.

Recent work exploring protein sequence space has revealed a new glycoside
hydrolase (GH) family (GH164) of putative mannosidases. GH164 genes are present
in several commensal bacteria, implicating these genes in the degradation of
dietary glycans. However, little is known about the structure, mechanism of
action, and substrate specificity of these enzymes. Herein we report the
biochemical characterization and crystal structures of the founding member of
this family (Bs164) from the human gut symbiont Bacteroides salyersiae. Previous 
reports of this enzyme indicated that it has α-mannosidase activity, however, we 
conclusively show that it cleaves only β-mannose linkages. Using NMR
spectroscopy, detailed enzyme kinetics of WT and mutant Bs164, and multiangle
light scattering we found that it is a trimeric retaining β-mannosidase, that is 
susceptible to several known mannosidase inhibitors. X-ray crystallography
revealed the structure of Bs164, the first known structure of a GH164, at 1.91 Å 
resolution. Bs164 is composed of three domains: a (β/α)8 barrel, a trimerization 
domain, and a β-sandwich domain, representing a previously unobserved
structural-fold for β-mannosidases. Structures of Bs164 at 1.80-2.55 Å resolution
in complex with the inhibitors noeuromycin, mannoimidazole, or 2,4-dinitrophenol 
2-deoxy-2-fluoro-mannoside reveal the residues essential for specificity and
catalysis including the catalytic nucleophile (Glu-297) and acid/base residue
(Glu-160). These findings further our knowledge of the mechanisms commensal
microbes use for nutrient acquisition.

© 2020 Armstrong and Davies.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.RA119.011591 
PMCID: PMC7105311
PMID: 31871050 

