
1. Microbiologyopen. 2020 Aug 28:e1111. doi: 10.1002/mbo3.1111. [Epub ahead of
print]

Microbial interaction between the succinate-utilizing bacterium
Phascolarctobacterium faecium and the gut commensal Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron.

Ikeyama N(1), Murakami T(2), Toyoda A(2), Mori H(2), Iino T(1), Ohkuma M(1),
Sakamoto M(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Microbe Division/Japan Collection of Microorganisms, RIKEN BioResource
Research Center, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(2)Advanced Genomics Center, National Institute of Genetics, Mishima, Shizuoka,
Japan.
(3)PRIME, Japan Agency for Medical Research and Development (AMED), Tsukuba,
Ibaraki, Japan.

A large variety of microbes are present in the human gut, some of which are
considered to interact with each other. Most of these interactions involve
bacterial metabolites. Phascolarctobacterium faecium hardly uses carbohydrates
for growth and instead uses succinate as a substrate. This study investigated the
growth behavior of the co-culture of the succinate-specific utilizer P. faecium
and the succinogenic gut commensal Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron. Succinate
production by B. thetaiotaomicron supported the growth of P. faecium and
concomitant propionate production via the succinate pathway. The succinate
produced was completely converted to propionate. This result was comparable with 
the monoculture of P. faecium in the medium supplemented with 1% (w/v) succinate.
We analyzed the transcriptional response (RNA-Seq) between the mono- and
co-culture of P. faecium and B. thetaiotaomicron. Comparison of the expression
levels of genes of P. faecium between the mono- and co-cultured conditions
highlighted that the genes putatively involved in the transportation of succinate
were notably expressed under the co-cultured conditions. Differential expression 
analysis showed that the presence of P. faecium induced changes in the B.
thetaiotaomicron transcriptional pattern, for example, expression changes in the 
genes for vitamin B12 transporters and reduced expression of glutamate-dependent 
acid resistance system-related genes. Also, transcriptome analysis of P. faecium 
suggested that glutamate and succinate might be used as sources of succinyl-CoA, 
an intermediate in the succinate pathway. This study revealed some survival
strategies of asaccharolytic bacteria, such as Phascolarctobacterium spp., in the
human gut.

Â© 2020 The Authors. MicrobiologyOpen published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mbo3.1111 
PMID: 32856395 

