
1. Sci Adv. 2020 Jan 3;6(1):eaax6208. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.aax6208. eCollection 2020 
Jan.

Citrus polymethoxyflavones attenuate metabolic syndrome by regulating gut
microbiome and amino acid metabolism.

Zeng SL(1), Li SZ(1), Xiao PT(1), Cai YY(1), Chu C(2), Chen BZ(3), Li P(1), Li
J(1), Liu EH(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, School of Life Science and
Technology, China Pharmaceutical University, No. 24 Tongjia Lane, Nanjing, China.
(2)College of Pharmaceutical Science, Zhejiang University of Technology,
Hangzhou, China.
(3)Guangdong Xinbaotang Biological Technology Co. Ltd., Guangdong, China.

Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is intricately linked to dysregulation of gut
microbiota and host metabolomes. Here, we first find that a purified citrus
polymethoxyflavone-rich extract (PMFE) potently ameliorates high-fat diet
(HFD)-induced MetS, alleviates gut dysbiosis, and regulates branched-chain amino 
acid (BCAA) metabolism using 16S rDNA amplicon sequencing and metabolomic
profiling. The metabolic protective effects of PMFE are gut microbiota dependent,
as demonstrated by antibiotic treatment and fecal microbiome transplantation
(FMT). The modulation of gut microbiota altered BCAA levels in the host serum and
feces, which were significantly associated with metabolic features and actively
responsive to therapeutic interventions with PMFE. Notably, PMFE greatly enriched
the commensal bacterium Bacteroides ovatus, and gavage with B. ovatus reduced
BCAA concentrations and alleviated MetS in HFD mice. PMFE may be used as a
prebiotic agent to attenuate MetS, and target-specific microbial species may have
unique therapeutic promise for metabolic diseases.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Authors, some rights reserved; exclusive licensee American
Association for the Advancement of Science. No claim to original U.S. Government 
Works. Distributed under a Creative Commons Attribution NonCommercial License 4.0
(CC BY-NC).

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aax6208 
PMCID: PMC6941918
PMID: 31922003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

