
1. Nutrients. 2020 Jun 23;12(6). pii: E1874. doi: 10.3390/nu12061874.

Changes in the Intestinal Microbiome during a Multispecies Probiotic Intervention
in Compensated Cirrhosis.

Horvath A(1)(2), Durdevic M(3)(4), Leber B(5), di Vora K(1), Rainer F(1), Krones 
E(1), Douschan P(1), Spindelboeck W(1), Durchschein F(1), Zollner G(1), Stauber
RE(1), Fickert P(1), Stiegler P(5), Stadlbauer V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Medical University of Graz,
8036 Graz, Austria.
(2)Center for Biomarker Research in Medicine (CBmed), 8010 Graz, Austria.
(3)Center for Medical Research, Medical University of Graz, 8036 Graz, Austria.
(4)Institute of Pathology, Medical University of Graz, 8036 Graz, Austria.
(5)Division of Transplantation Surgery, Medical University of Graz, 8036 Graz,
Austria.

Probiotics have been used in trials to therapeutically modulate the gut
microbiome and have shown beneficial effects in cirrhosis. However, their effect 
on the microbiome of cirrhosis patients is not fully understood yet. Here, we
tested the effects of a multispecies probiotic on microbiome composition in
compensated cirrhosis. The gut microbiome composition of 58 patients with
compensated cirrhosis from a randomized controlled trial who received a daily
dose of multispecies probiotics or placebo for six months was analysed by 16S
rRNA gene sequencing. Microbiome composition of patients who received probiotics 
was enriched with probiotic strains and the abundance of Faecalibacterium
prausnitzii, Syntrophococcus sucromutans, Bacteroides vulgatus, Alistipes shahii 
and a Prevotella species was increased in the probiotic group compared to the
placebo group. Patients who had microbiome changes in response to probiotic
treatment also showed a significant increase in neopterin and a significant
decrease in faecal zonulin levels after intervention, which was not observed in
placebo-treated patients or patients with unchanged microbiome compositions. In
conclusion, multispecies probiotics may enrich the microbiome of compensated
cirrhotic patients with probiotic bacteria during a six-month intervention and
beneficially change the residential microbiome and gut barrier function.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12061874 
PMCID: PMC7353185
PMID: 32585997 

