
1. Cancers (Basel). 2020 Aug 13;12(8). pii: E2272. doi: 10.3390/cancers12082272.

Targeting Gut Microbial Biofilms-A Key to Hinder Colon Carcinogenesis?

Chew SS(1), Tan LT(1), Law JW(1), Pusparajah P(1)(2), Goh BH(3)(4), Ab Mutalib
NS(5), Lee LH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Novel Bacteria and Drug Discovery (NBDD) Research Group, Microbiome and
Bioresource Research Strength, Jeffrey Cheah School of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Monash University Malaysia, Bandar Sunway 47500, Selangor Darul Ehsan, 
Malaysia.
(2)Medical Health and Translational Research Group, Jeffrey Cheah School of
Medicine and Health Sciences, Monash University Malaysia, Bandar Sunway 47500,
Selangor, Malaysia.
(3)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058,
China.
(4)Biofunctional Molecule Exploratory (BMEX) Research Group, School of Pharmacy, 
Monash University Malaysia, Bandar Sunway 47500, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
(5)UKM Medical Molecular Biology Institute (UMBI), UKM Medical Centre, Universiti
Kebangsaan Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur 56000, Malaysia.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a global public health issue which poses a substantial
humanistic and economic burden on patients, healthcare systems and society. In
recent years, intestinal dysbiosis has been suggested to be involved in the
pathogenesis of CRC, with specific pathogens exhibiting oncogenic potentials such
as Fusobacterium nucleatum, Escherichia coli and enterotoxigenic Bacteroides
fragilis having been found to contribute to CRC development. More recently, it
has been shown that initiation of CRC development by these microorganisms
requires the formation of biofilms. Gut microbial biofilm forms in the inner
colonic mucus layer and is composed of polymicrobial communities. Biofilm results
in the redistribution of colonic epithelial cell E-cadherin, increases
permeability of the gut and causes a loss of function of the intestinal barrier, 
all of which enhance intestinal dysbiosis. This literature review aims to compile
the various strategies that target these pathogenic biofilms and could
potentially play a role in the prevention of CRC. We explore the potential use of
natural products, silver nanoparticles, upconverting nanoparticles,
thiosalicylate complexes, anti-rheumatic agent (Auranofin), probiotics and
quorum-sensing inhibitors as strategies to hinder colon carcinogenesis via
targeting colon-associated biofilms.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers12082272 
PMCID: PMC7465663
PMID: 32823729 

