
1. Front Neurosci. 2020 Feb 18;14:127. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2020.00127. eCollection
2020.

Case-Control Study of the Effects of Gut Microbiota Composition on
Neurotransmitter Metabolic Pathways in Children With Attention Deficit
Hyperactivity Disorder.

Wan L(1), Ge WR(2), Zhang S(1), Sun YL(1), Wang B(1), Yang G(1).

Author information: 
(1)The First Medical Center of the Chinese PLA General Hospital, Beijing, China.
(2)Beijing Friendship Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.

Background: Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a neuropsychiatric
condition that may be related to an imbalance of neural transmitters. The gut
microbiota is the largest ecosystem in the human body, and the brain-gut axis
theory proposes that the gut microbiome can affect brain function in multiple
ways. The purpose of this study was to explore the gut microbiota in children
with ADHD and assess the possible role of the gut microbiota in disease
pathogenesis to open new avenues for ADHD treatment.
Methods: A case-control design was used. We enrolled 17 children aged 6-12 years 
with ADHD who were treated in the Pediatric Outpatient Department of the First
Medical Center of the Chinese PLA General Hospital from January to June, 2019.
Seventeen children aged 6-12 years were selected as the healthy control (HC)
group. Fecal samples of cases and controls were analyzed by shotgun metagenomics 
sequencing. Alpha diversity and the differences in the relative abundances of
bacteria were compared between the two groups. Functional annotations were
performed for the microbiota genes and metabolic pathways were analyzed using the
Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG).
Results: There was no significant difference in the alpha diversity of gut
microbiota between the ADHD and HC groups. Compared with HCs, Faecalibacterium
and Veillonellaceae were significantly reduced in children with ADHD (P < 0.05), 
Odoribacter and Enterococcus were significantly increased [linear discriminant
analysis (LDA) > 2]. At the species level, Faecalibacterium prausnitzii,
Lachnospiraceae bacterium, and Ruminococcus gnavus were significantly reduced in 
the ADHD group (P < 0.05), while Bacteroides caccae, Odoribacter splanchnicus,
Paraprevotella xylaniphila, and Veillonella parvula were increased (P < 0.05).
Metabolic pathway analysis revealed significant between-group differences in the 
metabolic pathways of neurotransmitters (e.g., serotonin and dopamine) (P <
0.05).
Conclusion: Composition differences of gut microbiota in subjects with ADHD may
contribute to brain-gut axis alterations and affect neurotransmitter levels,
which could contribute to ADHD symptoms.

Copyright Â© 2020 Wan, Ge, Zhang, Sun, Wang and Yang.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2020.00127 
PMCID: PMC7040164
PMID: 32132899 

