
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jul 14;11:1553. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01553. eCollection 
2020.

Increased Antibody Response to Fucosylated Oligosaccharides and Fucose-Carrying
Bacteroides Species in Crohn's Disease.

Kappler K(1), Lasanajak Y(2), Smith DF(2), Opitz L(3), Hennet T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiology, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Emory Comprehensive Glycomics Core, Emory
University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, United States.
(3)Functional Genomics Center Zurich, ETH Zurich/University of Zurich, Zurich,
Switzerland.

Inflammatory bowel disease is associated with intestinal dysbiosis and with
elevated antibody production toward microbial epitopes. The underlying processes 
linking the gut microbiota with inflammation are still unclear. Considering the
constant induction of antibodies by gut microbial glycans, the aim of this study 
was to address whether the repertoire of carbohydrate-specific antibodies is
altered in Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis. IgG and IgM reactivities to
oligosaccharides representative of mucosal glycans were tested in blood serum
from 20 healthy control subjects, 17 ulcerative colitis patients, and 23 Crohn's 
disease patients using glycan arrays. An increased IgG and IgM reactivity toward 
fucosylated oligosaccharides was detected in Crohn's disease but not in
ulcerative colitis. To address the antibody reactivity to the gut microbiota, IgG
binding to members of a complex intestinal microbiota was measured and observed
to be increased in sera of patients with Crohn's disease. Based on the elevated
reactivity to fucosylated oligosaccharides, gut bacteria were tested for
recognition by the fucose-binding Aleuria aurantia lectin. Bacteroides stercoris 
was detected in IgG- and lectin-positive fractions and reactivity of A. aurantia 
lectin was demonstrated for additional Bacteroides species. IgG reactivity to
these Bacteroides species was significantly increased in inflammatory bowel
disease patients, indicating that the increased reactivity to fucosylated
oligosaccharides detected in Crohn's disease may be induced by fucose-carrying
intestinal bacteria. Enhanced antibody response to fucosylated epitopes may have 
systemic effects by altering the binding of circulating antibodies to endogenous 
glycoproteins.

Copyright Â© 2020 Kappler, Lasanajak, Smith, Opitz and Hennet.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01553 
PMCID: PMC7381230
PMID: 32765449 

