
1. Front Microbiol. 2019 Nov 29;10:2635. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02635. eCollection 
2019.

Intestinal Bacteroides sp. Imbalance Associated With the Occurrence of Childhood 
Undernutrition in China.

Li D(1)(2), Li Y(3), Dai W(2), Wang H(4), Qiu C(2), Feng S(5), Zhou Q(3), Wang
W(6), Feng X(2), Yao K(7), Liu Y(2), Yang Y(2)(6)(7), Yang Z(2), Xu X(5), Li
S(3), Wei J(4), Zhou K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wuhan National Laboratory for Optoelectronics, Huazhong University of Science 
and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Microbial Research, WeHealthGene Institute, Shenzhen, China.
(3)Department of Computer Science, College of Science and Engineering, City
University of Hong Kong, Kowloon Tong, Hong Kong.
(4)Department of Clinical Nutrition, Shenzhen Children's Hospital, Shenzhen,
China.
(5)Institute of Statistics, Nankai University, Tianjin, China.
(6)Department of Respiratory Diseases, Shenzhen Children's Hospital, Shenzhen,
China.
(7)Department of Respiratory Diseases, Beijing Children's Hospital, Beijing,
China.

Undernutrition (UN) is a worldwide concern affecting morbidity and mortality
among children, but the safety and long-term efficacy of its current treatments
remain controversial. Recent evidence showing the roles of the gut microbiome
(GM) in nutrient absorption indicates its usefulness in alternative interventions
to treat UN safely with sustainable amelioration. To enhance our understanding of
the GM and childhood undernutrition, we deep sequenced the gut metagenomes of 65 
children with moderate or severe undernutrition (UN group) and 61 healthy
children (HC group) to identify associated taxa and genes using a two-stage
validation scheme. At stage I, 54 UN patients and 51 healthy children were
enrolled for the discovery of GM markers in UN children. The accuracy of the
markers was then tested in an additional 11 UN patients and 10 healthy children
at stage II. Compared to the HC group, the UN group had lower richness in
microbial genes (P = 0.005, FDR = 0.005) and species (P = 0.002, FDR = 0.002).
The distributions of bacterial genes enable the identification of 16 gene markers
with which to discriminate UN patients with high accuracy [averaged areas under
the receiver operating curve (AUC) = 0.87], including three Bacteroides uniformis
genes that are responsible for the synthesis of iron transporters. We also
identified four species markers that enable the UN patients to be confidently
discriminated from the HC children (averaged AUC = 0.91), namely Bacteroides
ovatus, Bacteroides uniformis, Bacteroides uniformis, and Bacteroides vulgatus.
In addition, metabolic comparison showed significantly decreased isobutyric acid 
(P = 0.005, FDR = 0.017) and increased isovaleric acid (P = 0.006, FDR = 0.017)
in UN patients. We also identified notable correlations between microbial species
and short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and several nutritional indicators, including
acetic acid and iron (r = 0.436, P = 0.029), butyric acid and iron (r = 0.422, P 
= 0.036), butyric acid and lymphocyte (r = -0.309, P = 0.011), and acetic acid
and total protein (r = -0.303, P = 0.043). Taken together, the distinct features 
of gut microbiota in UN patients highlight the taxonomic and functional shift
during the development of UN and provide a solid theoretical basis for
intervention in childhood undernutrition through gut microbes.

Copyright Â© 2019 Li, Li, Dai, Wang, Qiu, Feng, Zhou, Wang, Feng, Yao, Liu, Yang, 
Yang, Xu, Li, Wei and Zhou.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02635 
PMCID: PMC6895006
PMID: 31849851 

