
1. Nutrients. 2020 Jul 28;12(8). pii: E2251. doi: 10.3390/nu12082251.

Barrier Protection and Recovery Effects of Gut Commensal Bacteria on
Differentiated Intestinal Epithelial Cells In Vitro.

Mohebali N(1), Ekat K(1), Kreikemeyer B(1), Breitrück A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Bacteriology, Institute of Medical Microbiology, Virology and
Hygiene, University Medicine Rostock, 18057 Rostock, Germany.

Alterations in the gut microbiota composition play a crucial role in the
pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) as specific commensal bacterial 
species are underrepresented in the microbiota of IBD patients. In this study, we
examined the therapeutic potential of three commensal bacterial species,
Faecalibacterium prausnitzii (F. prausnitzii), Roseburia intestinalis (R.
intestinalis) and Bacteroides faecis (B. faecis) in an in vitro model of
intestinal inflammation, by using differentiated Caco-2 and HT29-MTX cells,
stimulated with a pro-inflammatory cocktail consisting of interleukin-1β (IL-1β),
tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα), interferon-γ (IFNγ), and lipopolysaccharide
(LPS). Results obtained in this work demonstrated that all three bacterial
species are able to recover the impairment of the epithelial barrier function
induced by the inflammatory stimulus, as determined by an amelioration of the
transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER) and the paracellular permeability of
the cell monolayer. Moreover, inflammatory stimulus increased claudin-2
expression and decreased occludin expression were improved in the cells treated
with commensal bacteria. Furthermore, the commensals were able to counteract the 
increased release of interleukin-8 (IL-8) and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 
(MCP-1) induced by the inflammatory stimulus. These findings indicated that F.
prausnitzii, R. intestinalis and B. faecis improve the epithelial barrier
integrity and limit inflammatory responses.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12082251 
PMCID: PMC7468801
PMID: 32731411 

