
1. ISME J. 2020 Feb;14(2):584-596. doi: 10.1038/s41396-019-0550-5. Epub 2019 Nov 11.

Microbial succession during wheat bran fermentation and colonisation by human
faecal microbiota as a result of niche diversification.

De Paepe K(1), Verspreet J(2), Courtin CM(2), Van de Wiele T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Bioscience Engineering, Center for
Microbial Ecology and Technology (CMET), Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
(2)Laboratory of Food Chemistry and Biochemistry, Leuven Food Science and
Nutrition Research Centre (LFoRCe), Faculty of Bioscience Engineering, KU Leuven,
Heverlee, Belgium.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Bioscience Engineering, Center for
Microbial Ecology and Technology (CMET), Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.
Tom.VandeWiele@UGent.be.

The human gut can be viewed as a flow-through system with a short residence time,
a high turnover rate and a spatial gradient of physiological conditions. As a
consequence, the gut microbiota is exposed to highly fluctuating environmental
determinants presented by the host and diet. Here, we assessed the fermentation
and colonisation of insoluble wheat bran by faecal microbiota of three
individuals at an unprecedented sampling intensity. Time-resolved 16S rRNA gene
amplicon sequencing, revealed a dynamic microbial community, characterised by
abrupt shifts in composition, delimiting states with a more constant community,
giving rise to a succession of bacterial taxa alternately dominating the
community over a 72 h timespan. Early stages were dominated by Enterobacteriaceae
and Fusobacterium species, growing on the carbohydrate-low, protein rich medium
to which wheat bran was supplemented. The onset of wheat bran fermentation,
marked by a spike in short chain fatty acid production with an increasing
butyrate proportion and an increased endo-1,4-β-xylanase activity, corresponded
to donor-dependent proportional increases of Bacteroides ovatus/stercoris,
Prevotella copri and Firmicutes species, which were strongly enriched in the
bran-attached community. Literature and database searches provided novel insights
into the metabolic and growth characteristics underlying the observed succession 
and colonisation, illustrating the potency of a time-resolved analysis to
increase our understanding of gut microbiota dynamics upon dietary modulations.

DOI: 10.1038/s41396-019-0550-5 
PMCID: PMC6976558
PMID: 31712738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

