
1. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2020 Mar 31;13:60. doi: 10.1186/s13068-020-01698-9.
eCollection 2020.

Multimodular fused acetyl-feruloyl esterases from soil and gut Bacteroidetes
improve xylanase depolymerization of recalcitrant biomass.

Kmezik C(1), Bonzom C(1), Olsson L(1)(2), Mazurkewich S(1)(2), Larsbrink J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)1Division of Industrial Biotechnology, Department of Biology and Biological
Engineering, Chalmers University of Technology, 412 96 Gothenburg, Sweden.
(2)2Wallenberg Wood Science Center, Chalmers University of Technology, 412 96
Gothenburg, Sweden.

Background: Plant biomass is an abundant and renewable carbon source that is
recalcitrant towards both chemical and biochemical degradation. Xylan is the
second most abundant polysaccharide in biomass after cellulose, and it possesses 
a variety of carbohydrate substitutions and non-carbohydrate decorations which
can impede enzymatic degradation by glycoside hydrolases. Carbohydrate esterases 
are able to cleave the ester-linked decorations and thereby improve the
accessibility of the xylan backbone to glycoside hydrolases, thus improving the
degradation process. Enzymes comprising multiple catalytic glycoside hydrolase
domains on the same polypeptide have previously been shown to exhibit
intramolecular synergism during degradation of biomass. Similarly, natively fused
carbohydrate esterase domains are encoded by certain bacteria, but whether these 
enzymes can result in similar synergistic boosts in biomass degradation has not
previously been evaluated.
Results: Two carbohydrate esterases with similar architectures, each comprising
two distinct physically linked catalytic domains from families 1 (CE1) and 6
(CE6), were selected from xylan-targeting polysaccharide utilization loci (PULs) 
encoded by the Bacteroidetes species Bacteroides ovatus and Flavobacterium
johnsoniae. The full-length enzymes as well as the individual catalytic domains
showed activity on a range of synthetic model substrates, corn cob biomass, and
Japanese beechwood biomass, with predominant acetyl esterase activity for the
N-terminal CE6 domains and feruloyl esterase activity for the C-terminal CE1
domains. Moreover, several of the enzyme constructs were able to substantially
boost the performance of a commercially available xylanase on corn cob biomass
(close to twofold) and Japanese beechwood biomass (up to 20-fold). Interestingly,
a significant improvement in xylanase biomass degradation was observed following 
addition of the full-length multidomain enzyme from B. ovatus versus the addition
of its two separated single domains, indicating an intramolecular synergy between
the esterase domains. Despite high sequence similarities between the esterase
domains from B. ovatus and F. johnsoniae, their addition to the xylanolytic
reaction led to different degradation patterns.
Conclusion: We demonstrated that multidomain carbohydrate esterases, targeting
the non-carbohydrate decorations on different xylan polysaccharides, can
considerably facilitate glycoside hydrolase-mediated hydrolysis of xylan and
xylan-rich biomass. Moreover, we demonstrated for the first time a synergistic
effect between the two fused catalytic domains of a multidomain carbohydrate
esterase.

Â© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-020-01698-9 
PMCID: PMC7110780
PMID: 32266006 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.

