
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jun 4;11:1213. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01213. eCollection
2020.

Amoxicillin Increased Functional Pathway Genes and Beta-Lactam Resistance Genes
by Pathogens Bloomed in Intestinal Microbiota Using a Simulator of the Human
Intestinal Microbial Ecosystem.

Liu L(1), Wang Q(1)(2), Lin H(1), Das R(1), Wang S(1), Qi H(1), Yang J(1), Xue
Y(3), Mao D(4), Luo Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Ministry of Education Key
Laboratory of Pollution Processes and Environmental Criteria, Nankai University, 
Tianjin, China.
(2)Hebei Key Laboratory of Air Pollution Cause and Impact (preparatory), College 
of Energy and Environmental Engineering, Hebei University of Engineering, Handan,
China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Environmental Protection of Water Environment Biological
Monitoring of Jiangsu Province, Changzhou Environmental Monitoring Center,
Changzhou, China.
(4)School of Medicine, Nankai University, Tianjin, China.

Antibiotics are frequently used to treat bacterial infections; however, they
affect not only the target pathogen but also commensal gut bacteria. They may
cause the dysbiosis of human intestinal microbiota and consequent metabolic
alterations, as well as the spreading of antibiotic resistant bacteria and
antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs). In vitro experiments by simulator of the
human intestinal microbial ecosystem (SHIME) can clarify the direct effects of
antibiotics on different regions of the human intestinal microbiota, allowing
complex human microbiota to be stably maintained in the absence of host cells.
However, there are very few articles added the antibiotics into this in vitro
model to observe the effects of antibiotics on the human intestinal microbiota.
To date, no studies have focused on the correlations between the bloomed
pathogens caused by amoxicillin (AMX) exposure and increased functional pathway
genes as well as ARGs. This study investigated the influence of 600 mg day-1 AMX 
on human intestinal microbiota using SHIME. The impact of AMX on the composition 
and function of the human intestinal microbiota was revealed by 16S rRNA gene
sequencing and high-throughput quantitative PCR. The results suggested that: (i) 
AMX treatment has tremendous influence on the overall taxonomic composition of
the gut microbiota by increasing the relative abundance of Klebsiella [linear
discriminant analysis (LDA) score = 5.26] and Bacteroides uniformis (LDA score = 
4.75), as well as taxonomic diversity (Simpson, P = 0.067, T-test; Shannon, P =
0.061, T-test), and decreasing the members of Parabacteroides (LDA score = 4.18),
Bifidobacterium (LDA score = 4.06), and Phascolarctobacterium (LDA score = 3.95);
(ii) AMX exposure significantly enhanced the functional pathway genes and
beta-lactam resistance genes, and the bloomed pathogens were strongly correlated 
with the metabolic and immune system diseases gene numbers (R = 0.98, P < 0.001) 
or bl2_len and bl2be_shv2 abundance (R = 0.94, P < 0.001); (iii) the changes
caused by AMX were "SHIME-compartment" different with more significant alteration
in ascending colon, and the effects were permanent, which could not be restored
after 2-week AMX discontinuance. Overall results demonstrated negative
side-effects of AMX, which should be considered for AMX prescription.

Copyright Â© 2020 Liu, Wang, Lin, Das, Wang, Qi, Yang, Xue, Mao and Luo.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01213 
PMCID: PMC7287123
PMID: 32582117 

