
1. Malays J Med Sci. 2020 Jul;27(4):9-21. doi: 10.21315/mjms2020.27.4.2. Epub 2020
Aug 19.

The Mechanism of Bacteroides fragilis Toxin Contributes to Colon Cancer
Formation.

Cheng WT(1), Kantilal HK(2), Davamani F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Applied Biomedical Sciences and Biotechnology, School of Health Sciences,
International Medical University, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Division of Pathology, School of Medicine, International Medical University,
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

The Bacteroides fragilis (B. fragilis) produce biofilm for colonisation in the
intestinal tract can cause a series of inflammatory reactions due to B. fragilis 
toxin (BFT) which can lead to chronic intestinal inflammation and tissue injury
and play a crucial role leading to colorectal cancer (CRC). The enterotoxigenic
B. fragilis (ETBF) forms biofilm and produce toxin and play a role in CRC,
whereas the non-toxigenic B. fragilis (NTBF) does not produce toxin. The ETBF
triggers the expression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 that releases PGE2 for inducing
inflammation and control cell proliferation. From chronic intestinal inflammation
to cancer development, it involves signal transducers and activators of
transcription (STAT)3 activation. STAT3 activates by the interaction between
epithelial cells and BFT. Thus, regulatory T-cell (Tregs) will activates and
reduce interleukin (IL)-2 amount. As the level of IL-2 drops, T-helper (Th17)
cells are generated leading to increase in IL-17 levels. IL-17 is implicated in
early intestinal inflammation and promotes cancer cell survival and proliferation
and consequently triggers IL-6 production that activate STAT3 pathway.
Additionally, BFT degrades E-cadherin, hence alteration of signalling pathways
can upregulate spermine oxidase leading to cell morphology and promote
carcinogenesis and irreversible DNA damage. Patient with familial adenomatous
polyposis (FAP) disease displays a high level of tumour load in the colon. This
disease is caused by germline mutation of the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC)
gene that increases bacterial adherence to the mucosa layer. Mutated-APC gene
genotype with ETBF increases the chances of CRC development. Therefore, the
colonisation of the ETBF in the intestinal tract depicts tumour aetiology can
result in risk of hostility and effect on human health.

Â© Penerbit Universiti Sains Malaysia, 2020.

DOI: 10.21315/mjms2020.27.4.2 
PMCID: PMC7444842
PMID: 32863742 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest None.

