
1. Malays J Pathol. 2020 Aug;42(2):245-252.

Susceptibility patterns of anaerobes isolated from clinical specimens in tertiary
Hospital, Malaysia.

Ishak N(1), Abdul Wahab Z, Amin Nordin S, Ibrahim R.

Author information: 
(1)Hospital Sungai Buloh, Department of Pathology, Microbiology Unit, Selangor,
Malaysia;. rosni.ibrahim@upm.edu.my.

INTRODUCTION: The susceptibility patterns of anaerobes are becoming less
predictable due to the emergence of anaerobic resistance trends to antibiotics;
hence increasing the importance of the isolation and antimicrobial susceptibility
testing of anaerobes.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study investigated the isolation of anaerobes from
the clinical specimens of Hospital Sungai Buloh, Malaysia, from January 2015 to
December 2015. All isolates were identified using the API 20A system (bioMérieux,
France). Antimicrobial susceptibility testing was performed using the E-test
(bioMérieux, France).
RESULTS: The proportion of obligate anaerobes isolated from the clinical
specimens was 0.83%. The Gram-positive anaerobes were most susceptible to
vancomycin and imipenem, showing 100% sensitivity to these antimicrobials,
followed by clindamycin (86.3%), penicillin (76.7%), and metronidazole (48.9%).
Meanwhile, Gram-negative anaerobes were most susceptible to metronidazole (96%)
followed by imipenem (89%), clindamycin (79%), and ampicillin (32%). The present 
study also showed that 3 out of 12 Bacteroides fragilis isolates were resistant
to imipenem.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated the differences in the susceptibility
patterns of anaerobes towards commonly used antimicrobials for the treatment of
anaerobic infections. In summary, continuous monitoring of antimicrobial
resistance trends among anaerobes is needed to ensure the appropriateness of
treatment.


PMID: 32860377 

