
1. Biol Chem. 2020 Sep 24. pii:
/j/bchm.ahead-of-print/hsz-2020-0230/hsz-2020-0230.xml. doi:
10.1515/hsz-2020-0230. [Epub ahead of print]

An RNA-centric view on gut Bacteroidetes.

Ryan D(1), Prezza G(1), Westermann AJ(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Helmholtz Institute for RNA-based Infection Research (HIRI), Helmholtz Centre 
for Infection Research (HZI), Josef-Schneider-Str. 2/D15, D-97080, Würzburg,
Germany.
(2)Institute of Molecular Infection Biology (IMIB), University of Würzburg,
Josef-Schneider-Str. 2/D15, D-97080, Würzburg, Germany.

Bacteria employ noncoding RNAs to maintain cellular physiology, adapt global gene
expression to fluctuating environments, sense nutrients, coordinate their
interaction with companion microbes and host cells, and protect themselves
against bacteriophages. While bacterial RNA research has made fundamental
contributions to biomedicine and biotechnology, the bulk of our knowledge of RNA 
biology stems from the study of a handful of aerobic model species. In
comparison, RNA research is lagging in many medically relevant obligate anaerobic
species, in particular the numerous commensal bacteria comprising our gut
microbiota. This review presents a guide to RNA-based regulatory mechanisms in
the phylum Bacteroidetes, focusing on the most abundant bacterial genus in the
human gut, Bacteroides spp. This includes recent case reports on riboswitches, an
mRNA leader, cis- and trans-encoded small RNAs (sRNAs) in Bacteroides spp., and a
survey of CRISPR-Cas systems across Bacteroidetes. Recent work from our
laboratory now suggests the existence of hundreds of noncoding RNA candidates in 
Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, the emerging model organism for functional
microbiota research. Based on these collective observations, we predict
mechanistic and functional commonalities and differences between Bacteroides
sRNAs and those of other model bacteria, and outline open questions and tools
needed to boost Bacteroidetes RNA research.

DOI: 10.1515/hsz-2020-0230 
PMID: 32881707 

