
1. Cell Rep. 2020 Sep 15;32(11):108142. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2020.108142.

Infection with Bacteroides Phage BV01 Alters the Host Transcriptome and Bile Acid
Metabolism in a Common Human Gut Microbe.

Campbell DE(1), Ly LK(2), Ridlon JM(3), Hsiao A(4), Whitaker RJ(5), Degnan PH(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801, USA.
(2)Division of Nutritional Sciences, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801,
USA; Department of Animal Sciences, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801,
USA.
(3)Division of Nutritional Sciences, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801,
USA; Department of Animal Sciences, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801,
USA; Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology, University of Illinois, Urbana,
IL 61801, USA.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Plant Pathology, University of California,
Riverside, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
(5)Department of Microbiology, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801, USA;
Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL
61801, USA.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Plant Pathology, University of California,
Riverside, Riverside, CA 92521, USA. Electronic address: patrick.degnan@ucr.edu.

Gut-associated phages are hypothesized to alter the abundance and activity of
their bacterial hosts, contributing to human health and disease. Although
temperate phages constitute a significant fraction of the gut virome, the effects
of lysogenic infection are underexplored. We report that the temperate phage,
Bacteroides phage BV01, broadly alters its host's transcriptome, the prominent
human gut symbiont Bacteroides vulgatus. This alteration occurs through
phage-induced repression of a tryptophan-rich sensory protein (TspO) and
represses bile acid deconjugation. Because microbially modified bile acids are
important signals for the mammalian host, this is a mechanism by which a phage
may influence mammalian phenotypes. Furthermore, BV01 and its relatives in the
proposed phage family Salyersviridae are ubiquitous in human gut metagenomes,
infecting a broad range of Bacteroides hosts. These results demonstrate the
complexity of phage-bacteria-mammal relationships and emphasize a need to better 
understand the role of temperate phages in the gut microbiome.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2020.108142 
PMID: 32937127 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests The authors declare no
competing interests.

