
1. mSystems. 2020 Jul 28;5(4). pii: e00317-20. doi: 10.1128/mSystems.00317-20.

Consumption of a Western-Style Diet Modulates the Response of the Murine Gut
Microbiome to Ciprofloxacin.

Cabral DJ(#)(1), Wurster JI(#)(1), Korry BJ(1), Penumutchu S(1), Belenky P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, Brown University,
Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, Brown University,
Providence, Rhode Island, USA peter_belenky@brown.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Dietary composition and antibiotic use have major impacts on the structure and
function of the gut microbiome, often resulting in dysbiosis. Despite this,
little research has been done to explore the role of host diet as a determinant
of antibiotic-induced microbiome disruption. Here, we utilize a multi-omic
approach to characterize the impact of Western-style diet consumption on
ciprofloxacin-induced changes to gut microbiome structure and transcriptional
activity. We found that Western diet consumption dramatically increased
Bacteroides abundances and shifted the community toward the metabolism of simple 
sugars and mucus glycoproteins. Mice consuming a Western-style diet experienced a
greater expansion of Firmicutes following ciprofloxacin treatment than those
eating a control diet. Transcriptionally, we found that ciprofloxacin reduced the
abundance of tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle transcripts on both diets, suggesting
that carbon metabolism plays a key role in the response of the gut microbiome to 
this antibiotic. Despite this, we observed extensive diet-dependent differences
in the impact of ciprofloxacin on microbiota function. In particular, at the
whole-community level we detected an increase in starch degradation, glycolysis, 
and pyruvate fermentation following antibiotic treatment in mice on the Western
diet, which we did not observe in mice on the control diet. Similarly, we
observed diet-specific changes in the transcriptional activity of two important
commensal bacteria, Akkermansia muciniphila and Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron,
involving diverse cellular processes such as nutrient acquisition, stress
responses, and capsular polysaccharide (CPS) biosynthesis. These findings
demonstrate that host diet plays a role in determining the impacts of
ciprofloxacin on microbiome composition and microbiome function.IMPORTANCE Due to
the growing incidence of disorders related to antibiotic-induced dysbiosis, it is
essential to determine how our "Western"-style diet impacts the response of the
microbiome to antibiotics. While diet and antibiotics have profound impacts on
gut microbiome composition, little work has been done to examine their combined
effects. Previous work has shown that nutrient availability, influenced by diet, 
plays an important role in determining the extent of antibiotic-induced
disruption to the gut microbiome. Thus, we hypothesize that the Western diet will
shift microbiota metabolism toward simple sugar and mucus degradation and away
from polysaccharide utilization. Because of bacterial metabolism's critical role 
in antibiotic susceptibility, this change in baseline metabolism will impact how 
the structure and function of the microbiome are impacted by ciprofloxacin
exposure. Understanding how diet modulates antibiotic-induced microbiome
disruption will allow for the development of dietary interventions that can
alleviate many of the microbiome-dependent complications of antibiotic treatment.

Copyright Â© 2020 Cabral et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSystems.00317-20 
PMCID: PMC7394352
PMID: 32723789 

