
1. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2020 Feb 7;8:24. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00024.
eCollection 2020.

Use of Changestat for Growth Rate Studies of Gut Microbiota.

Adamberg K(1)(2), Raba G(1), Adamberg S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biotechnology, Tallinn University of Technology,
Tallinn, Estonia.
(2)Center of Food and Fermentation Technologies, Tallinn, Estonia.

Human colon microbiota, composed of hundreds of different species, is closely
associated with several health conditions. Controlled in vitro cultivation and
up-to-date analytical methods make possible the systematic evaluation of the
underlying mechanisms of complex interactions between the members of microbial
consortia. Information on reproducing fecal microbial consortia can be used for
various clinical and biotechnological applications. In this study, chemostat and 
changestat cultures were used to elucidate the effects of the physiologically
relevant range of dilution rates on the growth and metabolism of adult fecal
microbiota. The dilution rate was kept either at D = 0.05 or D = 0.2 1/h in
chemostat cultures, while gradually changing from 0.05 to 0.2 1/h in the A-stat
and from 0.2 to 0.05 1/h in the De-stat. Apple pectin as a substrate was used in 
the chemostat experiments and apple pectin or birch xylan in the changestat
experiments, in the presence of porcine mucin in all cases. The analyses were
comprised of HPLC for organic acids, UPLC for amino acids, GC for gas
composition, 16S-rDNA sequencing for microbial composition, and growth parameter 
calculations. It was shown that the abundance of most bacterial taxa was
determined by the dilution rate on both substrates. Bacteroides ovatus,
Bacteroides vulgatus, and Faecalibacterium were prevalent within the whole range 
of dilution rates. Akkermansia muciniphila and Ruminococcaceae UCG-013 were
significantly enriched at D = 0.05 1/h, while Bacteroides caccae, Lachnospiraceae
unclassified and Escherichia coli clearly preferred D = 0.2 1/h. In the chemostat
cultures, the production of organic acids and gases from pectin was related to
the dilution rate. The ratio of acetate, propionate and butyrate was 5:2:1 (D =
0.05 1/h) and 14:2:1 (D = 0.2 1/h). It was shown that the growth rate-related
characteristics of the fecal microbiota were concise in both directions between D
= 0.05 and 0.2 1/h. Reproducible adaptation of the fecal microbiota was shown in 
the continuous culture with a changing dilution rate: changestat. Consortia
cultivation is a promising approach for research purposes and several
biotechnological applications, including the production of multi-strain
probiotics and fecal transplantation mixtures.

Copyright Â© 2020 Adamberg, Raba and Adamberg.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00024 
PMCID: PMC7019180
PMID: 32117913 

