
1. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2020 Aug 11:1-20. doi: 10.1080/10408398.2020.1803198.
[Epub ahead of print]

Polysaccharides catabolism by the human gut bacterium -Bacteroides
thetaiotaomicron: advances and perspectives.

Ye M(1), Yu J(1), Shi X(2), Zhu J(1), Gao X(1), Liu W(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Druggability of Biopharmaceuticals, State Key
Laboratory of Natural Medicines, School of Life Science and Technology, China
Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, PR China.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Qinghai University Affiliated Hospital,
Xining, PR China.

In recent years, the degradation processes of polysaccharides by human gut
microbiota are receiving considerable attention due to the discoveries of the
powerful function of gut microbiota. Gut microbiota has developed a sensitive,
accurate, and complex system for sensing, capturing, and degrading different
polysaccharides. Among the gut microbiota, Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, a
representative species of Bacteroides, is considered as the best degrader of
polysaccharides and a potential probiotic in pharmaceutical and food industries. 
Here, we summarize the degradation system of B. thetaiotaomicron and the
degradation pathways of different polysaccharides by B. thetaiotaomicron. We also
describe a technical route for investigating a specific polysaccharide
degradation pathway by human gut bacteria. In addition, we also provide the
future perspectives in the development of novel polysaccharides or
oligosaccharides drugs, precision microbiology medicine, and personalized
nutrition.

DOI: 10.1080/10408398.2020.1803198 
PMID: 32779480 

