
1. Gut Pathog. 2020 Feb 26;12:10. doi: 10.1186/s13099-020-00351-y. eCollection 2020.

Gut microbiome of native Arab Kuwaitis.

Plummer E(1), Bulach D(2)(3), Carter G(2), Albert MJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Molecular Microbiology, Murdoch Children's Research Institute, 
Melbourne, VIC Australia.
(2)2Microbiological Diagnostic Unit Public Health Laboratory, The Peter Doherty
Institute for Infection and Immunity, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC
Australia.
(3)3Melbourne Bioinformatics, The University of Melbourne, Carlton, VIC
Australia.
(4)4Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Kuwait University, Jabriya, 
Kuwait.

Background: The human gut microbiome has an important role in health and disease.
There is extensive geographical variation in the composition of the gut
microbiome, however, little is known about the gut microbiome composition of
people from the Arabian Peninsula. In this study, we describe the gut microbiome 
of Arab Kuwaitis. The gut microbiome of 25 native adult Arab Kuwaitis was
characterised using 16S rRNA gene sequencing of the V3-V4 regions. Sequencing
data were analysed using DADA2. Phylogeny analysis was performed using amplicon
sequence variants (ASVs) assigned to the Bacteroides genus and 16S rRNA sequences
of Bacteroides type strains to understand the relationships among Bacteroides
ASVs.
Results: About 63% of participants were overweight/obese reflecting normal
Kuwaiti population. Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes were the dominant phyla detected
in the gut microbiome (representing 48% and 46% of total sequencing reads
respectively). At the genus level, Bacteroides was the most abundant genus in 22 
of 25 participants. A total of 223 ASVs were assigned to the Bacteroides genus,
eleven of which were present in 50% or more of study participants, reflecting a
high diversity of this genus. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the Bacteroides
dorei/vulgatus group was the most abundant phylogenetic group (representing
11.91% of all sequence reads) and was detected in all 25 individuals.
Conclusions: Bacteroides was the most abundant genus in the gut microbiome of
native Arab Kuwaiti adults, with Bacteroides dorei/vulgatus forming the
predominant phylogenetic group. The microbiome composition would also have been
influenced by the nutritional status of participants.

Â© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1186/s13099-020-00351-y 
PMCID: PMC7043038
PMID: 32127920 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.

