
1. Autism Res. 2020 Aug 24. doi: 10.1002/aur.2358. [Epub ahead of print]

Changes in the Gut Microbiota of Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder.

Zou R(1), Xu F(2), Wang Y(3), Duan M(1), Guo M(1), Zhang Q(4), Zhao H(2), Zheng
H(1).

Author information: 
(1)NHC Key Laboratory of Reproduction Regulation (Shanghai Institute of Planned
Parenthood Research), School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fudan University,
Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Jinan Central Hospital Affiliated to Shandong
University, Jinan, China.
(3)Shanghai-MOST Key Laboratory of Health and Disease Genomics, Chinese National 
Human Genome Center at Shanghai, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi
Medical University, Zunyi, China.

Alterations in the gut microbiota may influence gastrointestinal (GI) dysbiosis
frequently reported in individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). In this
study, we sequenced the bacterial 16S rRNA gene to evaluate changes in fecal
microbiota between 48 children with ASD and 48 healthy children in China. At the 
phylum level, the number of Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, and Verrucomicrobia
decreased in children with ASD, while the Bacteroidetes/Firmicutes was
significantly higher in autistic children due to enrichment of Bacteroidetes. At 
the genus level, the amount of Bacteroides, Prevotella,
Lachnospiracea_incertae_sedis, and Megamonas increased, while Clostridium XlVa,
Eisenbergiella, Clostridium IV, Flavonifractor, Escherichia/Shigella,
Haemophilus, Akkermansia, and Dialister decreased in children with ASD relative
to the controls. Significant increase was observed in the number of species
synthesizing branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs), like Bacteroides vulgatus and
Prevotella copri, while the numbers of Bacteroides fragilis and Akkermansia
muciniphila decreased in children with ASD compared to the controls. Most
importantly, the highest levels of pathogenic bacteria were different for each
child with ASD in this cohort. We found that only one functional module, cellular
antigens, was enriched in children with ASD, and other pathways like lysine
degradation and tryptophan metabolism were significantly decreased in children
with ASD. These findings provide further evidence of altered gut microbiota in
Chinese ASD children and may contribute to the treatment of patients with ASD.
LAY SUMMARY: This study characterized the gut bacteria composition of 48 children
with ASD and 48 neurotypical children in China. The metabolic disruptions caused 
by altered gut microbiota may contribute significantly to the neurological
pathophysiology of ASD, including significant increases in the number of species 
synthesizing BCAAs, and decreases in the number of probiotic species. These
findings suggest that a gut microbiome-associated therapeutic intervention may
provide a novel strategy for treating GI symptoms frequently seen in individuals 
with ASD.

Â© 2020 International Society for Autism Research and Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.2358 
PMID: 32830918 

