
1. mSystems. 2020 Sep 1;5(5). pii: e00252-20. doi: 10.1128/mSystems.00252-20.

Metabolic Feedback Inhibition Influences Metabolite Secretion by the Human Gut
Symbiont Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron.

Catlett JL(1), Catazaro J(2), Cashman M(3)(4), Carr S(1), Powers R(2)(5), Cohen
MB(3), Buan NR(6)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, Nebraska,
USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, Nebraska,
USA.
(3)Department of Computer Science, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa, USA.
(4)Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, USA.
(5)Nebraska Center for Integrated Biomolecular Communication, Lincoln, Nebraska, 
USA.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, Nebraska,
USA nbuan@unl.edu.

Microbial metabolism and trophic interactions between microbes give rise to
complex multispecies communities in microbe-host systems. Bacteroides
thetaiotaomicron (B. theta) is a human gut symbiont thought to play an important 
role in maintaining host health. Untargeted nuclear magnetic resonance
metabolomics revealed B. theta secretes specific organic acids and amino acids in
defined minimal medium. Physiological concentrations of acetate and formate found
in the human intestinal tract were shown to cause dose-dependent changes in
secretion of metabolites known to play roles in host nutrition and pathogenesis. 
While secretion fluxes varied, biomass yield was unchanged, suggesting feedback
inhibition does not affect metabolic bioenergetics but instead redirects carbon
and energy to CO2 and H2 Flux balance analysis modeling showed increased flux
through CO2-producing reactions under glucose-limiting growth conditions. The
metabolic dynamics observed for B. theta, a keystone symbiont organism,
underscores the need for metabolic modeling to complement genomic predictions of 
microbial metabolism to infer mechanisms of microbe-microbe and microbe-host
interactions.IMPORTANCE Bacteroides is a highly abundant taxon in the human gut, 
and Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron (B. theta) is a ubiquitous human symbiont that
colonizes the host early in development and persists throughout its life span.
The phenotypic plasticity of keystone organisms such as B. theta is important to 
understand in order to predict phenotype(s) and metabolic interactions under
changing nutrient conditions such as those that occur in complex gut communities.
Our study shows B. theta prioritizes energy conservation and suppresses secretion
of "overflow metabolites" such as organic acids and amino acids when
concentrations of acetate are high. Secreted metabolites, especially amino acids,
can be a source of nutrients or signals for the host or other microbes in the
community. Our study suggests that when metabolically stressed by acetate, B.
theta stops sharing with its ecological partners.

Copyright Â© 2020 Catlett et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSystems.00252-20 
PMCID: PMC7470985
PMID: 32873608 

