
1. Nutrients. 2020 Feb 20;12(2). pii: E551. doi: 10.3390/nu12020551.

Safety Assessment of Bacteroides Uniformis CECT 7771, a Symbiont of the Gut
Microbiota in Infants.

Gómez Del Pulgar EM(1), Benítez-Páez A(1), Sanz Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Microbial Ecology, Nutrition & Health Research Unit, Institute of
Agrochemistry and Food Technology, Spanish National Research Council (IATA-CSIC),
46980 Valencia, Spain.

The formulation of next-generation probiotics requires competent preclinical
studies to show their efficacy and safety status. This study aims to confirm the 
safety of the prolonged oral use of Bacteroides uniformis CECT 7771, a strain
that protected against metabolic disorders and obesity in preclinical trials, in 
a sub-chronic 90 day trial in animals. The safety assessment was conducted in
male and female Wistar rats (n = 50) administered increasing doses (108 CFU/day, 
109 CFU/day, or 1010 CFU/day) of B. uniformis CECT 7771, 1010 CFU/day of B.
longum ATCC 15707T, which complies with the qualifying presumption of safety
(QPS) status of the EU, or vehicle (placebo), as the control. Pancreatic, liver, 
and kidney functions and cytokine concentrations were analyzed. Bacterial
translocation to peripheral tissues was evaluated, and colon integrity was
investigated histologically. No adverse metabolic or tissue integrity alterations
were associated with treatments; however, alanine aminotransferase levels and the
ratio of anti-inflammatory to pro-inflammatory cytokines in serum indicated a
potentially beneficial role of B. uniformis CECT 7771 at specific doses.
Additionally, the microbial community structure was modified by the
interventions, and potentially beneficial gut bacteria were increased. The
results indicated that the oral consumption of B. uniformis CECT 7771 during a
sub-chronic 90 day study in rats did not raise safety concerns.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12020551 
PMCID: PMC7071458
PMID: 32093252 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

