
1. Gut Microbes. 2020 Nov 9;12(1):1736974. doi: 10.1080/19490976.2020.1736974. Epub 
2020 Mar 21.

Probiotic-directed modulation of gut microbiota is basal microbiome dependent.

Hou Q(1), Zhao F(1), Liu W(1), Lv R(1), Khine WWT(2), Han J(3), Sun Z(1), Lee
YK(2), Zhang H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Ministry of Education, 
Key Laboratory of Dairy Products Processing, Ministry of Agriculture, Inner
Mongolia Agricultural University , Huhhot, China.
(2)Department of Microbiology & Immunology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine,
National University of Singapore , Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Department of Nutrition and Food Hygiene, College of Public Health, Xinjiang
Medical University , Urumqi, China.

As an effective means to improve quality of life and prevent diseases, the demand
for probiotics and related products has increased in recent years. However, it is
still unclear whether a particular probiotic strain will have similar beneficial 
effects on healthy adults from different regions. In this study, the probiotic
Lactobacillus casei Zhang (LCZ) was consumed by healthy adults from six different
Asian regions and the changes in gut microbiota were compared using PacBio single
molecule, real-time (SMRT) sequencing technology based on samples collected
before, during and after consumption of LCZ. Our results reveal that the effect
of LCZ consumption on individuals was closely related to the composition of that 
individual's basal gut microbiota. A Gut Microbiota Variability Index (GMVI) was 
proposed to quantitatively compare the effects of LCZ on human gut microecology. 
Subjects from Xinjiang and Singapore regions had the highest and lowest GMVI,
respectively. In general, consumption of LCZ increased the relative abundance of 
certain beneficial bacteria such as Lactobacillus, Roseburia, Coprococcus and
Eubacterium rectale, while it inhibited growth of certain harmful bacteria such
as Blautia and Ralstonia pickettii. In addition, consumption of LCZ was
responsible for the conversion of some participants from Prevotella
copri/Faecalibacterium prausnitzii (PF) enterotype to Faecalibacterium
prausnitzii/Bacteroides dorei (FB) enterotype and consistently increased the
abundance of lactic acid bacteria in the gut. It also increased/enhanced
phosphate metabolic modules, amino acid transport systems, and isoleucine
biosynthesis, but conversely decreased lipopolysaccharide biosynthesis. These
changes could have health benefits for healthy adults.

DOI: 10.1080/19490976.2020.1736974 
PMID: 32200683 

