
1. Gut Microbes. 2020 Jul 3;11(4):820-841. doi: 10.1080/19490976.2019.1710092. Epub 
2020 Jan 19.

Helicobacter pylori antibiotic eradication coupled with a chemically defined diet
in INS-GAS mice triggers dysbiosis and vitamin K deficiency resulting in gastric 
hemorrhage.

Quinn L(1), Sheh A(1), Ellis JL(2), Smith DE(2), Booth SL(2), Fu X(2),
Muthupalani S(1), Ge Z(1), Puglisi DA(1), Wang TC(3), Gonda TA(3), Holcombe H(1),
Fox JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology ,
Cambridge, MA, USA.
(2)Jean Mayer USDA Human Nutrition Research Center on Aging, Tufts University ,
Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center , New York, NY,
USA.

Infection with Helicobacter pylori causes chronic inflammation and is a risk
factor for gastric cancer. Antibiotic treatment or increased dietary folate
prevents gastric carcinogenesis in male INS-GAS mice. To determine potential
synergistic effects, H. pylori-infected male INS-GAS mice were fed an amino acid 
defined (AAD) diet with increased folate and were treated with antibiotics after 
18 weeks of H. pylori infection. Antibiotic therapy decreased gastric pathology, 
but dietary folate had no effect. However, the combination of antibiotics and the
AAD diet induced anemia, gastric hemorrhage, and mortality. Clinical presentation
suggested hypovitaminosis K potentially caused by dietary deficiency and
dysbiosis. Based on current dietary guidelines, the AAD diet was deficient in
vitamin K. Phylloquinone administered subcutaneously and via a reformulated diet 
led to clinical improvement with no subsequent mortalities and increased hepatic 
vitamin K levels. We characterized the microbiome and menaquinone profiles of
antibiotic-treated and antibiotic-free mice. Antibiotic treatment decreased the
abundance of menaquinone producers within orders Bacteroidales and
Verrucomicrobiales. PICRUSt predicted decreases in canonical menaquinone
biosynthesis genes, menA and menD. Reduction of menA from Akkermansia
muciniphila, Bacteroides uniformis, and Muribaculum intestinale were confirmed in
antibiotic-treated mice. The fecal menaquinone profile of antibiotic-treated mice
had reduced MK5 and MK6 and increased MK7 and MK11 compared to antibiotic-free
mice. Loss of menaquinone-producing microbes due to antibiotics altered the
enteric production of vitamin K. This study highlights the role of diet and the
microbiome in maintaining vitamin K homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1080/19490976.2019.1710092 
PMID: 31955643 

