
1. Mol Oral Microbiol. 2020 Aug;35(4):181-191. doi: 10.1111/omi.12304. Epub 2020 Jul
9.

Sequence and characterization of shuttle vectors for molecular cloning in
Porphyromonas, Bacteroides and related bacteria.

Jones KR(1), Belvin BR(1), Macrina FL(1)(2), Lewis JP(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)The Philips Institute for Oral Health Research, Virginia Commonwealth
University, Richmond, VA, USA.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Virginia Commonwealth University,
Richmond, VA, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Virginia Commonwealth
University, Richmond, VA, USA.

There is a lack of shuttle vectors to be needed for investigations into the
genetics of Porphyromonas gingivalis and related species. To better understand
the prevalence of candidates for such tools, we have examined multiple strains of
black-pigmented anaerobes (clinical and laboratory isolates) for plasmids. As no 
plasmids were found in P. gingivalis strains, we have used the pYH420 plasmid,
derived from P. asaccharolytica, as backbone to construct a shuttle vector in
combination with pUC19 from Escherichia coli. Nucleotide sequence determination
of the pYH420 plasmid revealed that it contained a gene with similarity to rep
from plasmid pTS1 (isolated from Treponema denticola) as well as a homolog of
mobA, a member of a gene family found on mobilizable genetic elements found in
the genus Bacteroides. We constructed the pG106 and pG108 shuttle vectors using
parts of the pUC19 and pYH420 vectors. This resulted in a vector with a multiple 
cloning site (MCS) in the lacZ gene enabling us to perform blue-white colony
selection. The pG106 and pG108 shuttle vectors are electro-transformable into E. 
coli, P. gingivalis and B. thetaiotaomicron, where they are stable. We
demonstrated that these vectors were suitable in these species for applications
of molecular cloning including complementation and gene expression studies. Using
the pG108 vector, we complement the hcpR mutant strain of P. gingivalis and
rescued its NO 2 - -sensitive phenotype. We also performed a gene expression
study using the P-glow BS2 fluorescent reporter gene and the ahpC promoter in B. 
thetaiotaomicron.

Â© 2020 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/omi.12304 
PMID: 32592236 

