
1. Carbohydr Polym. 2020 Jun 15;238:116205. doi: 10.1016/j.carbpol.2020.116205. Epub
2020 Mar 27.

Detection and isolation of low molecular weight alginate- and
laminaran-susceptible gut indigenous bacteria from ICR mice.

Takei MN(1), Kuda T(2), Taniguchi M(1), Nakamura S(1), Hajime T(1), Kimura B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Tokyo University of Marine Science 
and Technology, 4-5-7 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8477, Japan.
(2)Department of Food Science and Technology, Tokyo University of Marine Science 
and Technology, 4-5-7 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8477, Japan. Electronic
address: kuda@kaiyodai.ac.jp.

Alginate and laminaran are the main water-soluble polysaccharides in edible brown
algae such as arame Eisenia bicyclis. To determine the alginate- and/or
laminaran-susceptible indigenous bacteria (SIB) in the gut, the caecal
microbiomes of ICR mice fed a diet containing 2% low molecular weight (LMW
≒50 kDa) alginate or laminaran were analysed by 16S rRNA gene (V4) amplicon
sequencing. At the phylum level abundances, compared to those in mice fed a
no-fibre diet, Firmicutes was lower and Bacteroidetes was higher in both LMW
alginate- or laminaran-fed mouse groups. At the operational taxonomic unit level,
Bacteroides acidifaciens- and Bacteroides intestinalis-like bacteria were
considered alginate- and laminaran-SIB, respectively. B. acidifaciens PS-4
isolated from the ICR mice fermented LMW alginate and laminaran and mainly
produced succinate. B. intestinalis ALB-11 also isolated from these mice
fermented laminaran and mainly produced lactate. These SIB might exert
interactive effects with edible brown algal consumption and affect host health.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carbpol.2020.116205 
PMID: 32299574 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest We declare that
there are no conflicts of interest related to this work.

