
1. New Microbes New Infect. 2020 Jan 16;34:100652. doi: 10.1016/j.nmni.2020.100652. 
eCollection 2020 Mar.

Bartonella vinsonii subsp. arupensis infection in animals of veterinary
importance, ticks and biopsy samples.

Chochlakis D(1), Cutler S(2), Giadinis ND(3), Psaroulaki A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Microbial Pathogenesis, School of
Medicine, University of Crete, Voutes - Staurakia, 71110, Heraklion, Crete,
Greece.
(2)School of Health, Sports & Bioscience, University of East London, London, UK.
(3)Clinic of Farm Animals, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, School of Health
Sciences, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece.

Testing for vector-borne pathogens in livestock is largely reliant upon blood and
tissue. The role of biopsy samples remains poorly explored for detecting
tick-borne bacteria in animals. In a 2-year survey, animals of veterinary
importance from farms throughout the northern part of Greece were routinely
checked for the presence of biopsy samples. Where detected, either a portion or a
biopsy was collected together with whole blood samples and any ticks at the site 
of the biopsy sample. Molecular testing was carried out by real-time PCR
targeting the internal transcribed spacer gene of Bartonella species. A total of 
68 samples (28 blood samples, 28 biopsy samples and 12 ticks (nine Rhipicephalus 
bursa and three Rhipicephalus turanicus)) were collected from goats (64 samples) 
and cattle (four samples). Eight (11.8%) of the 68 samples were positive for
Bartonella species. Of the biopsy and whole blood samples, four (14.3%) of each
type were positive for Bartonella species. None of the ticks tested positive for 
Bartonella species. All pairs of positive biopsy samples/whole blood samples
originated from the same animals. Positive samples were identified as Bartonella 
vinsonii subsp. arupensis. Although many more samples from a much wider spectrum 
of animal species is required before concluding upon the merit of biopsy samples 
in the study of tick-borne diseases, the significance of our finding warrants
further study, both for clinical consequences in small ruminants and for those
humans who are farming infected animals.

Â© 2020 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nmni.2020.100652 
PMCID: PMC7013009
PMID: 32071727 

