
1. Parasit Vectors. 2020 Sep 14;13(1):469. doi: 10.1186/s13071-020-04344-3.

Hopping species and borders: detection of Bartonella spp. in avian nest fleas and
arctic foxes from Nunavut, Canada.

Buhler KJ(1), Maggi RG(2), Gailius J(3), Galloway TD(4), Chilton NB(5),
Alisauskas RT(5)(6), Samelius G(7), Bouchard É(3), Jenkins EJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Microbiology, Western College of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Saskatchewan, 52 Campus Drive, Saskatoon, SK, S7N 5B4, Canada.
kab048@usask.ca.
(2)Intracellular Pathogens Research Laboratory, College of Veterinary Medicine,
North Carolina State University, 1060 William Moore Drive, Raleigh, NC, 27606,
USA.
(3)Department of Veterinary Microbiology, Western College of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Saskatchewan, 52 Campus Drive, Saskatoon, SK, S7N 5B4, Canada.
(4)Department of Entomology, Faculty of Agricultural and Food Sciences,
University of Manitoba, 12 Dafoe Road, Winnipeg, MB, R3T 2N2, Canada.
(5)Department of Biology, University of Saskatchewan, Science Place, Saskatoon,
SK, S7N 5E2, Canada.
(6)Prairie and Northern Wildlife Research Centre, Wildlife Research Division,
Environment and Climate Change Canada, 115 Perimeter Road, Saskatoon, SK, S7N
0X4, Canada.
(7)Snow Leopard Trust, 4649 Sunnyside Ave North, Suite 325, Seattle, WA, 98103,
USA.

BACKGROUND: In a warmer and more globally connected Arctic, vector-borne
pathogens of zoonotic importance may be increasing in prevalence in native
wildlife. Recently, Bartonella henselae, the causative agent of cat scratch
fever, was detected in blood collected from arctic foxes (Vulpes lagopus) that
were captured and released in the large goose colony at Karrak Lake, Nunavut,
Canada. This bacterium is generally associated with cats and cat fleas, which are
absent from Arctic ecosystems. Arctic foxes in this region feed extensively on
migratory geese, their eggs, and their goslings. Thus, we hypothesized that a
nest flea, Ceratophyllus vagabundus vagabundus (Boheman, 1865), may serve as a
vector for transmission of Bartonella spp.
METHODS: We determined the prevalence of Bartonella spp. in (i) nest fleas
collected from 5 arctic fox dens and (ii) 37 surrounding goose nests, (iii) fleas
collected from 20 geese harvested during arrival at the nesting grounds and (iv) 
blood clots from 57 adult live-captured arctic foxes. A subsample of fleas were
identified morphologically as C. v. vagabundus. Remaining fleas were pooled for
each nest, den, or host. DNA was extracted from flea pools and blood clots and
analyzed with conventional and real-time polymerase chain reactions targeting the
16S-23S rRNA intergenic transcribed spacer region.
RESULTS: Bartonella henselae was identified in 43% of pooled flea samples from
nests and 40% of pooled flea samples from fox dens. Bartonella vinsonii
berkhoffii was identified in 30% of pooled flea samples collected from 20 geese. 
Both B. vinsonii berkhoffii (n = 2) and B. rochalimae (n = 1) were identified in 
the blood of foxes.
CONCLUSIONS: We confirm that B. henselae, B. vinsonii berkhoffii and B.
rochalimae circulate in the Karrak Lake ecosystem and that nest fleas contain B. 
vinsonii and B. henselae DNA, suggesting that this flea may serve as a potential 
vector for transmission among Arctic wildlife.

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-020-04344-3 
PMCID: PMC7490881
PMID: 32928287 

