
1. J Mol Biol. 2020 Feb 14;432(4):1265-1278. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2019.12.040. Epub
2020 Jan 14.

A Chimeric EccB-MycP Fusion Protein is Functional and a Stable Component of the
ESX-5 Type VII Secretion System Membrane Complex.

van Winden VJC(1), Bunduc CM(2), Ummels R(1), Bitter W(3), Houben ENG(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology and Infection Control, Amsterdam UMC,
Location VU Medical Center, van der Boechorststraat 6, 1081 BT Amsterdam, the
Netherlands.
(2)Section Molecular Microbiology, Amsterdam Institute of Molecular and Life
Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1108, 1081 HZ Amsterdam, the
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Medical Microbiology and Infection Control, Amsterdam UMC,
Location VU Medical Center, van der Boechorststraat 6, 1081 BT Amsterdam, the
Netherlands; Section Molecular Microbiology, Amsterdam Institute of Molecular and
Life Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1108, 1081 HZ
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Section Molecular Microbiology, Amsterdam Institute of Molecular and Life
Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1108, 1081 HZ Amsterdam, the
Netherlands. Electronic address: e.n.g.houben@vu.nl.

The mycosin protease (MycP) is widely conserved in type VII secretion (T7S)
systems throughout Actinobacteria. Within the T7S systems of mycobacteria, also
known as the ESX systems, MycP is essential for secretion, which is probably
linked to its stabilizing effect on the ESX membrane complex. However, it is
unknown how this is mediated, as MycP is not a stable component of this complex. 
In this study, we set out to create a chimeric fusion protein of EccB5 and MycP5,
based on a chimeric gene of eccB and mycP in the T7S locus of Bifidobacterium
dentium. We show that this fusion protein is functional and capable of
complementing ESX-5 secretion in both an eccB5 and a mycP5 knockout in
Mycobacterium marinum. To study the ESX complex containing this fusion protein in
more detail, we replaced the original eccB5 and mycP5 of the Mycobacterium xenopi
esx-5 locus, reconstituted in Mycobacterium smegmatis, with the chimeric gene.
The EccB5-MycP5 fusion construct also restored ESX-5 secretion under these double
knockout conditions. Subsequent protein pulldowns on the central complex
component EccC5 showed that under these conditions, the EccB5-MycP5 fusion was
specifically copurified and a stable component of the ESX-5 complex. Based on our
results, we can conclude that MycP5 carries out its essential function in
secretion in close proximity to EccB5, indicating that EccB5 is the direct
interaction partner of MycP5.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2019.12.040 
PMID: 31953145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

