
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jul 31;11:1863. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01863. eCollection 
2020.

Transcriptome Analysis of the Clostridioides difficile Response to Different
Doses of Bifidobacterium breve.

Yang J(1), Yang H(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, School of Life Sciences and
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.

Probiotics are widely used in the prevention of Clostridioides difficile
infection (CDI). The precise dosage of probiotics is a challenge. In this study, 
Clostridioides difficile ATCC 9689 (CD) was exposed to different doses of
Bifidobacterium breve (YH68). A transcriptomic analysis was performed on CD cells
that were separately exposed to low or high doses of YH68 cell-free culture
supernatant (CFCS; CDL; or CDH, respectively). The results showed that the
inhibitory effect of YH68 (cell pellets or CFCS) on the growth and the damage to 
the cell membrane integrity of CD exhibited a dose-response relationship at the
physiological level. At the transcriptional level, a large number of
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were concentrated in amino acid,
carbohydrate, energy metabolism and membrane transport in CDL and CDH cells,
suggesting that both doses of YH68-CFCS triggered a significant change in
activities in these metabolic pathways. Importantly, a significant stimulation or
suppression was found in the pathogenic pathways (quorum sensing, signal
transduction, flagellar assembly, biofilm formation, and drug resistance) of CDL 
and CDH cells, whereas there were some differences between the two doses. For
example, the expression levels of genes related to quorum sensing and signal
transduction in CDH cells were suppressed significantly, whereas genes encoding
toxin production and sporulation factors were enhanced; in CDL cells, the
expression levels of genes associated with flagellar assembly and biofilm
formation were suppressed, whereas genes associated with drug resistance were
upregulated significantly. These results indicated that the inhibitory effect of 
YH68-CFCS against CD, especially in pathogenic and metabolic aspects, did not
demonstrate a dose-response relationship at the transcriptional level.

Copyright Â© 2020 Yang and Yang.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01863 
PMCID: PMC7411088
PMID: 32849451 

