
1. Foods. 2020 Jul 13;9(7). pii: E921. doi: 10.3390/foods9070921.

Prebiotic Properties of Non-Fructosylated α-Galactooligosaccharides from PEA
(Pisum sativum L.) Using Infant Fecal Slurries.

Marín-Manzano MDC(1), Hernandez-Hernandez O(2), Diez-Municio M(2),
Delgado-Andrade C(1), Moreno FJ(2), Clemente A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Estación Experimental del Zaidín (CSIC), Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Científicas (CSIC), 18008 Granada, Spain.
(2)Institute of Food Science Research (CIAL, CSIC-UAM), 28049 Madrid, Spain.

The interest for naturally-occurring oligosaccharides from plant origin having
prebiotic properties is growing, with special focus being paid to supplemented
products for infants. Currently, non-fructosylated α-galactooligosaccharides
(α-GOS) from peas have peaked interest as a result of their prebiotic activity in
adults and their mitigated side-effects on gas production from colonic bacterial 
fermentation. In this study, commercially available non-fructosylated α-GOS from 
peas and β-galactooligosaccharides (β-GOS) derived from lactose were fermented
using fecal slurries from children aged 11 to 24 months old during 6 and 24 h.
The modulatory effect of both GOS on different bacterial groups and
bifidobacteria species was assessed; non-fructosylated α-GOS consumption was
monitored throughout the fermentation process and the amounts of lactic acid and 
short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) generated were analyzed. Non-fructosylated α-GOS, 
composed mainly of manninotriose and verbascotetraose and small amounts of
melibiose, were fully metabolized and presented remarkable bifidogenic activity, 
similar to that obtained with β-GOS. Furthermore, non-fructosylated α-GOS
selectively caused an increase on the population of Bifidobacterium longum subsp.
longum and Bifidobacterium catenulatum/pseudo-catenulatum. In conclusion,
non-fructosylated α-GOS could be used as potential ingredient in infant formula
supplemented with prebiotic oligosaccharides.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9070921 
PMCID: PMC7405007
PMID: 32668744 

