
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Sep 1;11:2089. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.02089. eCollection
2020.

Potential Immunomodulatory Activity of a Selected Strain Bifidobacterium bifidum 
H3-R2 as Evidenced in vitro and in Immunosuppressed Mice.

Shang J(1), Wan F(1), Zhao L(1), Meng X(1)(2), Li B(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Dairy Science, Ministry of Education, Northeast Agricultural
University, Harbin, China.
(2)School of Food Science, Northeast Agricultural University, Harbin, China.

The microbiota is directly involved in the development and modulation of the
intestinal immune system. In particular, members of the genus Bifidobacterium
play a primary role in immune regulation. In the present study, Bifidobacterium
bifidum H3-R2 was screened from 15 bifidobacterium strains by in vitro
experiment, showing a positive tolerance to digestive tract conditions, adhesion 
ability to intestinal epithelial cells and a regulatory effect on immune cell
activity. Immunostimulatory activity of B. bifidum H3-R2 was also elucidated in
vivo in cytoxan (CTX)-treated mice. The results showed that the administration of
B. bifidum H3-R2 ameliorated the CTX-induced bodyweight loss and imbalanced
expression of inflammatory cytokines, enhanced the production of secretory
immunoglobulin A (SIgA), and promoted splenic lymphocyte proliferation, natural
killer (NK) cell activity and phagocytosis of macrophages in immunosuppressed
mice. In addition, B. bifidum H3-R2 restored injured intestinal mucosal, and
increased the villus length and crypt depth in CTX-treated mice. The results
could be helpful for understanding the functions of B. bifidum H3-R2, supporting 
its potential as a novel probiotic for immunoregulation.

Copyright Â© 2020 Shang, Wan, Zhao, Meng and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.02089 
PMCID: PMC7491056
PMID: 32983062 

