
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Aug 11;8(8). pii: E1219. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8081219.

Ultrasound-Attenuated Microorganisms Inoculated in Vegetable Beverages: Effect of
Strains, Temperature, Ultrasound and Storage Conditions on the Performances of
the Treatment.

Campaniello D(1), Corbo MR(1), Speranza B(1), Sinigaglia M(1), Bevilacqua A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of the Science of Agriculture, Food and Environment, University of 
Foggia, 71122 Foggia, Italy.

Four microorganisms (Lactobacillus acidophilus LA5, Bifidobacterium animalis
subsp. lactis DSM 10140 and Lactiplantibacillus plantarum c16 and c19) were
attenuated through ultrasound (US) treatments (40% of power for 2, 4 and 6 min;
and 60% for 2 min; pulses were set at 2 s) inoculated in
rice-oats-almond-soy-based beverages and stored at 4 °C for eight days. All
strains were able to survive throughout the storage independently by the food
matrix. Concerning the effect on acidification, the results were analyzed through
multifactorial analysis of variance (MANOVA) and the key-findings of this were:
(i) The treatment with 40% of power for 6 min was the most efficient at delaying 
acidification; (ii) Lb. acidophilus LA5 showed the best capacity to delay
acidification; (iii) in the soy-based beverage a lower acidification was found.
In a second step, L. plantarum c16 and c19 were attenuated, inoculated in rice
beverage, stored under a thermal abuse (for 4 and 24 h) and then at 4, 15 and 20 
°C. The results showed that only when US were combined with refrigeration
temperatures were they efficient at delaying acidification. Thus, a perspective
for attenuation could be the optimization of the treatment to design an effective
way to counteract acidification also under a thermal abuse.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8081219 
PMCID: PMC7464006
PMID: 32796662 

