
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Sep 28;10(1):15919. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-72792-z.

Strain-specific strategies of 2'-fucosyllactose, 3-fucosyllactose, and
difucosyllactose assimilation by Bifidobacterium longum subsp. infantis Bi-26 and
ATCC 15697.

Zabel BE(1), Gerdes S(2), Evans KC(2), Nedveck D(2), Singles SK(3), Volk B(3),
Budinoff C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Genomics and Microbiome Science, DuPont Nutrition and Biosciences, Madison,
WI, USA. bryan.zabel@dupont.com.
(2)Genomics and Microbiome Science, DuPont Nutrition and Biosciences, Madison,
WI, USA.
(3)Advanced Analytical, DuPont Nutrition and Biosciences, Wilmington, DE, USA.

Human milk provides essential nutrients for infant nutrition. A large proportion 
of human milk is composed of human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs), which are
resistant to digestion by the infant. Instead, HMOs act as a bioactive and
prebiotic enriching HMO-utilizing bacteria and cause systematic changes in the
host. Several species of Bifidobacterium have been shown to utilize HMOs by
conserved, as well as species-specific pathways, but less work has been done to
study variation within species or sub-species. B. longum subsp. infantis is a
prevalent species in the breast-fed infant gut and the molecular mechanisms of
HMO utilization for the type strain B. longum subsp. infantis ATCC 15697 (type
strain) have been well characterized. We used growth, transcriptomic, and
metabolite analysis to characterize key differences in the utilization of 2'FL,
3FL and DFL (FLs) between B. longum subsp. infantis Bi-26 (Bi-26) and the type
strain. Bi-26 grows faster, produces unique metabolites, and has a distinct
global gene transcription response to FLs compared to the type strain. Taken
together the findings demonstrate major strain specific adaptations in Bi-26 to
efficient utilization of FLs.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-72792-z 
PMCID: PMC7522266
PMID: 32985563 

