
1. Int J Microbiol. 2020 Jul 30;2020:1293481. doi: 10.1155/2020/1293481. eCollection
2020.

Microencapsulation of Probiotic Strains by Lyophilization Is Efficient in
Maintaining the Viability of Microorganisms and Modulation of Fecal Microbiota in
Cats.

Rodrigues BM(1), Olivo PM(1), Osmari MP(1)(2), Vasconcellos RS(1), Ribeiro LB(1),
Bankuti FI(1), Pozza MSS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Science Department, State University of Maringá, Avenida Colombo, 5790,
Maringá, Paraná 87020-900, Brazil.
(2)Federal University of Santa Catarina, Engenheiro Agronômico Andrei Cristian
Ferreira St., Florianópolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil.

High extrusion temperatures may compromise the functionality of probiotics in dry
food. This study aimed to (i) evaluate the effects of two types of
microencapsulation techniques, different encapsulating agents, and 120 days of
storage on the viability of a commercial probiotic product and (ii) investigate
fecal microbiota populations and fecal characteristics of adult cats fed with
diets supplemented with probiotics. Three experimental treatments were evaluated:
T1, commercial feed (control); T2, commercial kibbles coated with probiotics; and
T3, commercial feed supplemented with freeze-dried probiotics and
fructooligosaccharides. Fructooligosaccharides and gum arabic were used as
encapsulating agents for freeze drying and spray drying and a pool containing
Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillus lactis,
Bifidobacterium bifidum, Enterococcus faecium, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a 
probiotic. Diets were provided to 18 adult cats for 20 days. Feed samples were
evaluated microbiologically, and feces were characterized according to their
microbial content, pH, and fecal score. Freeze drying was more effective in
maintaining microbial viability. Microcapsules prepared using
fructooligosaccharides as encapsulants had the highest bacterial count: 8.74 log 
CFU/g of lactic acid bacteria and 8.75 log CFU/g of enterococci. Probiotics and
synbiotics positively modulated (P < 0.05) the fecal microbiota of cats,
increasing the lactic acid bacteria counts from 3.65 to 4.87 and 5.07 log CFU/g, 
respectively. Microbial viability decreased significantly (P < 0.05) after
storage, demonstrating the need for effective protection mechanisms against
extrinsic agents. In conclusion, the supplementation of cat diets with probiotics
positively affected the gut microbiota. However, the results reinforce that
probiotic microorganisms must be incorporated into the animal feed via effective 
mechanisms to withstand harsh processing conditions and storage.

Copyright © 2020 Bruna M. Rodrigues et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/1293481 
PMCID: PMC7414325
PMID: 32802066 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest regarding the publication of this article.

