
1. EFSA J. 2020 Jul 29;18(7):e06198. doi: 10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6198. eCollection 2020
Jul.

Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis Bi-07 contributes to increasing lactose
digestion: evaluation of a health claim pursuant to Article 13(5) of Regulation
(EC) No 1924/2006.

EFSA Panel on Nutrition, Novel foods and Food Allergens (NDA), Turck D,
Castenmiller J, De Henauw S, Hirsch-Ernst KI, Kearney J, Knutsen HK, Maciuk A,
Mangelsdorf I, McArdle HJ, Naska A, Pelaez C, Pentieva K, Thies F, Tsabouri S,
Vinceti M, S Bresson JL, Siani A.

Following an application from DuPont Nutrition Biosciences ApS submitted for
authorisation of a health claim pursuant to Article 13(5) of Regulation (EC)
No 1924/2006 via the Competent Authority of Ireland, the EFSA Panel on Nutrition,
Novel Foods and Food Allergens (NDA) was asked to deliver an opinion on the
scientific substantiation of a health claim related to Bifidobacterium animalis
subsp. lactis Bi-07 (Bi-07) and contribution to increasing lactose digestion. The
scope of the application was proposed to fall under a health claim based on newly
developed scientific evidence. The food proposed by the applicant as the subject 
of the health claim is Bi-07. The Panel considers that Bi-07 is sufficiently
characterised. The claimed effect proposed by the applicant is 'improvement of
lactose digestion'. The Panel considers that increasing lactose digestion is a
beneficial physiological effect for individuals with lactose maldigestion
provided that the symptoms of lactose maldigestion are improved. Two human
intervention studies which investigated a single dose effect of Bi-07 on lactose 
digestion using the hydrogen breath test, as well as on gastrointestinal symptoms
were submitted. These studies show that consumption of Bi-07 (1012 CFU) increases
lactose digestion in individuals with lactose maldigestion and that Bi-07
exhibits lactase activity in vitro. However, these studies provide no evidence
that increasing lactose digestion through the consumption of Bi-07 (1012 CFU)
improves gastrointestinal symptoms of lactose maldigestion, which is considered a
beneficial physiological effect. The Panel concludes that a cause and effect
relationship has not been established between the consumption of Bifidobacterium 
animalis subsp. lactis Bi-07 and a beneficial physiological effect (i.e. the
improvement of symptoms of lactose maldigestion) in individuals with lactose
maldigestion.

© 2020 European Food Safety Authority. EFSA Journal published by John Wiley and
Sons Ltd on behalf of European Food Safety Authority.

DOI: 10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6198 
PMCID: PMC7388145
PMID: 32742434 

