
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 May 26;11:1088. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01088. eCollection 
2020.

The Diversity of the CRISPR-Cas System and Prophages Present in the Genome
Reveals the Co-evolution of Bifidobacterium pseudocatenulatum and Phages.

Wang G(1), Liu Q(1), Pei Z(1), Wang L(1), Tian P(1), Liu Z(2), Zhao J(1)(3)(4),
Zhang H(1)(3)(5)(6)(7), Chen W(1)(3)(6)(8).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University,
Wuxi, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology, Shanghai Engineering Research
Center of Dairy Biotechnology, Dairy Research Institute, Bright Dairy & Food Co.,
Ltd., Shanghai, China.
(3)School of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.
(4)International Joint Research Laboratory for Probiotics, Jiangnan University,
Wuxi, China.
(5)(Yangzhou) Institute of Food Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Yangzhou,
China.
(6)National Engineering Research Center for Functional Food, Jiangnan University,
Wuxi, China.
(7)Wuxi Translational Medicine Research Center and Jiangsu Translational Medicine
Research Institute Wuxi Branch, Wuxi, China.
(8)Beijing Innovation Centre of Food Nutrition and Human Health, Beijing
Technology and Business University, Beijing, China.

Diverse CRISPR-Cas systems constitute an indispensable part of the bacterial
adaptive immune system against viral infections. However, to escape from this
immune system, bacteriophages have also evolved corresponding anti-defense
measures. We investigated the diversity of CRISPR-Cas systems and the presence of
prophages in the genomes of 66 Bifidobacterium pseudocatenulatum strains. Our
findings revealed a high occurrence of complete CRISPR-Cas systems (62%, 41/66)
in the B. pseudocatenulatum genomes. Subtypes I-C, I-U and II-A, were found to be
widespread in this species. No significant association was found between the
number of bacterial CRISPR spacers and its host's age. This study on prophages
within B. pseudocatenulatum genomes revealed that prophage genes related to
distinct functional modules became degraded at different levels, indicating that 
these prophages were not likely to enter lytic cycle spontaneously. Further, the 
evolutionary analysis of prophages in this study revealed that they might be
derived from different phage ancestors. Notably, self-targeting phenomenon within
B. pseudocatenulatum and Anti-CRISPR (Acr) coding genes in prophages was
observed. Overall, our results indicate that the competition between B.
pseudocatenulatum and phages is a major driving factor for the genomic diversity 
of both partners.

Copyright Â© 2020 Wang, Liu, Pei, Wang, Tian, Liu, Zhao, Zhang and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01088 
PMCID: PMC7264901
PMID: 32528454 

