
1. Eur J Pharmacol. 2020 Sep 28;887:173596. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.173596. [Epub
ahead of print]

Anti-tumor effect of a recombinant Bifidobacterium strain secreting a
claudin-targeting molecule in a mouse breast cancer model.

Shimizu Y(1), Isoda K(2), Taira Y(2), Taira I(2), Kondoh M(3), Ishida I(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Teikyo Heisei University, 4-21-2,
Nakano, Nakano-ku, Tokyo, 164-8530, Japan. Electronic address:
shimizu-y@thu.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Teikyo Heisei University, 4-21-2,
Nakano, Nakano-ku, Tokyo, 164-8530, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Osaka University, 1-6 Yamadaoka,
Suita, Osaka, 565-0871, Japan.

Bifidobacterium is a nonpathogenic strain of anaerobic bacteria that selectively 
localizes and proliferates in tumors. It has emerged as a specific carrier of
anticancer proteins against malignant tumors. Claudins are tetraspanin
transmembrane proteins that form tight junctions. Claudin-4 is overexpressed in
certain epithelial malignant cancers. The C-terminal fragment of the Clostridium 
perfringens enterotoxin (C-CPE), an exotoxin without the cytotoxic domain,
strongly binds to claudin-4. The C-CPE fusion toxin (C-CPE-PE23), which targets
claudin-4, strongly suppresses tumor growth; however, C-CPE fusion toxins exhibit
hepatic toxicity. In this study, we successfully generated a strain of
Bifidobacterium longum that secreted C-CPE-PE23 (B. longum-C-CPE-PE23) and was
specific to and cross reactive with human and mouse claudin-4. We evaluated the
therapeutic potential of this strain against triple-negative breast cancer using 
a mouse model. C-CPE-PE23 decreased cell viability in a dose-dependent manner in 
human and mouse breast cancer cell lines. After intravenous injection,
Bifidobacterium was specifically distributed in the tumors of mice bearing breast
cancer tumors. Moreover, B. longum-C-CPE-PE23 significantly suppressed tumor
growth in mice with breast cancer without serious side effects, such as weight
loss or hepatic and renal damage. We suggest that B. longum-C-CPE-PE23 is a good 
candidate for breast cancer treatment. Bifidobacterium could also be used as a
drug delivery system for hepatotoxic agents.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.173596 
PMID: 32979353 

