
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Sep;103(9):7695-7706. doi: 10.3168/jds.2020-18203. Epub 2020
Jul 16.

Human Bifidobacterium strains as adjunct cultures in Spanish sheep milk cheese.

Langa S(1), Peirotén A(1), Gaya P(1), Garde S(1), Arqués JL(1), Nuñez M(1),
Medina M(1), Rodríguez-Mínguez E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agrarias y Alimentarias (INIA),
Departamento de Tecnología de Alimentos, Ctra. Coruña Km 7, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agrarias y Alimentarias (INIA),
Departamento de Tecnología de Alimentos, Ctra. Coruña Km 7, 28040 Madrid, Spain. 
Electronic address: minguez@inia.es.

Three bifidobacteria strains of human origin (Bifidobacterium pseudolongum INIA
P2, Bifidobacterium breve INIA P734, and Bifidobacterium longum INIA P678) were
used as potential probiotic adjunct cultures for the manufacture of pasteurized
sheep milk cheese. Bifidobacteria were inoculated at 5 to 6 log cfu/mL in milk
vats. Microbiological, physicochemical, rheological, color, and sensory
characteristics were determined at 7, 28, and 60 d of ripening. Counts of B.
pseudolongum INIA P2 remained above 6 log cfu/g during 60 d of ripening as well
as after further simulated gastrointestinal digestion of cheeses. Bifidobacterium
breve INIA P734 counts remained stable during 28 d and decreased by less than 1
log unit after simulated digestion. Bifidobacterium longum INIA P678 counts
dropped sharply during cheese manufacture and ripening and were below detection
level after simulated digestion. Addition of bifidobacteria strains did not
affect starter viability, cheese pH, dry matter, water activity, or salt content 
but significantly increased overall proteolysis and the concentration of some
free amino acids. Cheeses with bifidobacteria exhibited no significant
differences in most sensory characteristics with respect to control cheese.
According to our results, B. breve INIA P734 and B. pseudolongum INIA P2 are
promising candidates as probiotic adjunct cultures in fresh and semi-hard sheep
milk cheese.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-18203 
PMID: 32684453 

