
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Sep 22. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004474. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Proposal of Bifidobacterium saeculare Biavati et al. 1992 as a later heterotypic 
synonym of Bifidobacterium gallinarum Watabe et al. 1983 and Bifidobacterium
gallinarum subsp. saeculare subsp. nov.

Liu DD(1), Wang H(1), Gu CT(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Northeast Agricultural University, Harbin 150030, PR
China.

In 2018, Nouioui et al. transferred Bifidobacterium gallinarum and
Bifidobacterium saeculare to Bifidobacterium pullorum as B. pullorum subsp.
gallinarum and B. pullorum subsp. saeculare on the basis of digital DNA-DNA
hybridization (dDDH) values. These two new subspecies were validated in the same 
year. However, we found that the genome (GenBank/ENA/DDBJ accession number
JGZJ01000000) of B. pullorum used by Nouioui et al. in the dDDH analysis cannot
represent B. pullorum. So, the taxonomic relationship between B. gallinarum, B.
saeculare and B. pullorum should be re-examined. B. pullorum DSM 20433T had
88.7-89.0 % average nucleotide identity (ANI) values and 37.5-38.0 % dDDH values 
to the type strains of B. gallinarum and B. saeculare, respectively, less than
the threshold for species demarcation, confirming that B. pullorum represents a
different species from B. gallinarum and B. saeculare. The ANI values and dDDH
values between the type strains of B. gallinarum and B. saeculare were
96.7-96.9 % and 73.0-73.3 %, respectively, greater than the threshold for species
demarcation, confirming that they represent the same species. Relatively low dDDH
values (less than the 79-80 % threshold for subspecies demarcation) between the
type strains of B. gallinarum and B. saeculare indicated that B. saeculare can be
considered as a subspecies of B. gallinarum. On the basis of the results
presented here, (i) B. gallinarum and B. saeculare should not be transferred to
B. pullorum; (ii) we propose B. saeculare Biavati et al. 1992 as a later
heterotypic synonym of B. gallinarum Watabe et al. 1983 and as a new subspecies
of B. gallinarum, for which the name B. gallinarum subsp. saeculare subsp. nov.
is proposed.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004474 
PMID: 32960752 

