
1. PLoS One. 2020 Sep 11;15(9):e0238923. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0238923.
eCollection 2020.

Maternal supplementation with Bifidobacterium breve M-16V prevents their
offspring from allergic airway inflammation accelerated by the prenatal exposure 
to an air pollutant aerosol.

Terada-Ikeda C(1), Kitabatake M(1), Hiraku A(2), Kato K(3), Yasui S(1), Imakita
N(1), Ouji-Sageshima N(1), Iwabuchi N(2), Hamada K(4), Ito T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Nara Medical University, Kashihara, Nara, Japan.
(2)R&D Division, Food Ingredients and Technology Institute, Morinaga Milk
Industry Co., Ltd., Zama, Japan.
(3)R&D Division, Next Generation Science Institute, Morinaga Milk Industry Co.,
Ltd., Zama, Japan.
(4)Department of Clinical and Investigative Medicine, Faculty of Nursing, Nara
Medical University, Kashihara, Nara, Japan.

Bifidobacterium breve M-16V is a probiotic bacterial strain with efficacy in
infants achieved by suppressing T-helper type (Th) 2 immune responses and
modulating the systemic Th1/Th2 balance. Exposure to air pollution during
pregnancy increases asthma susceptibility in offspring. The aim of this study was
to investigate the effects of the maternal intake of B. breve M-16V on
susceptibility to asthma accelerated by prenatal exposure to air pollution. The
intake of B. breve M-16V in residual oil fly ash (ROFA)-exposed pregnant mice
resulted in fewer eosinophils in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of neonatal
mice and reduced allergic lung inflammation. The expressions of Th2 cytokines
including IL-5 and IL-13 were decreased in neonatal mice from ROFA-exposed
mothers fed B. breve M-16V. The analysis of fecal microbiota from neonatal mice
revealed that the intake of B. breve M-16V by mothers changed the composition of 
fecal microbiota in neonatal mice, which resulted in a decreased population of
Firmicutes. Moreover, several bacterial strains of fecal microbiota from neonatal
mice had a strong correlation with Th2 cytokines and histological score. These
results suggest that the maternal intake of M-16V might have beneficial effects
in neonates by preventing and/or alleviating allergic reactions accelerated by
prenatal exposure to air pollution.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0238923 
PMCID: PMC7485856
PMID: 32915886 

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have read the manuscript and have
approved this submission. The authors have the journal's policy and have the
following conflicts: A. Hiraku, K. Kato and N. Iwabuchi are employees of Morinaga
Milk Industry Co., Ltd. The Morinaga Milk Industry Co., Ltd. is the commercial
company that sells dairy products like milk, yoghurt, infant formula and so on.
The Morinaga Milk Industry Co., Ltd. has filed patent applications on aspects of 
this work. A. Hiraku, N. Iwabuchi, and Dr. Ito are named as inventors on patent
application number WO2019/163257 (patent name: COMPOSITION FOR PREVENTING OR
RELIEVING RESPIRATORY DISEASE). These do not alter our adherence to all the PLOS 
ONE policies on sharing data and materials.

