
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Sep 4. pii: S0022-0302(20)30672-X. doi: 10.3168/jds.2020-18773.
[Epub ahead of print]

2'-Fucosyllactose promotes Bifidobacterium bifidum DNG6 adhesion to Caco-2 cells.

Zhang G(1), Zhao J(1), Wen R(1), Zhu X(1), Liu L(1), Li C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Dairy Science, College of Food Science, Northeast
Agricultural University, Harbin, 150030, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Dairy Science, College of Food Science, Northeast
Agricultural University, Harbin, 150030, China. Electronic address:
spxylch@126.com.

Adhesion to the intestinal mucosa is the prerequisite for bifidobacteria to
colonize and exert biological functions, whereas the choice of carbon source
affects the ability of bifidobacteria to adhere to and interact with intestinal
epithelial cells. However, knowledge about the relationship between human milk
oligosaccharide consumption by bifidobacteria and its adhesion is still limited. 
In this study, we aim to investigate the effect of 2'-fucosyllactose (2'-FL) as
the carbon source on the growth and adhesion properties of Bifidobacterium
bifidum DNG6, and make comparisons with galactooligosaccharides and glucose. We
found that the growth and adhesion properties of B. bifidum DNG6 grown in
different carbon sources were varied. The 2'-FL as a carbon source improves the
adhesion ability of B. bifidum DNG6. The expression of adhesion-associated genes 
was significantly higher in B. bifidum DNG6 grown in 2'-FL after incubation with 
Caco-2 cells compared with that in galactooligosaccharides and glucose. Our
results indicated that 2'-FL may promote B. bifidum DNG6 adhesion to Caco-2 cells
through high expression of genes encoding adhesion proteins. The findings of this
study contribute to a better understanding of the involvement of human milk
oligosaccharides in the adhesion of bifidobacteria and further support the
potential application of 2'-FL as a prebiotic in infant nutritional supplements.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-18773 
PMID: 32896399 

