
1. Cells. 2020 Aug 1;9(8). pii: E1824. doi: 10.3390/cells9081824.

Probiotic Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium Strains Counteract Adherent-Invasive 
Escherichia coli (AIEC) Virulence and Hamper IL-23/Th17 Axis in Ulcerative
Colitis, but Not in Crohn's Disease.

Leccese G(1), Bibi A(1), Mazza S(2), Facciotti F(3), Caprioli F(2)(4), Landini
P(1), Paroni M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosciences, Università degli Studi di Milano, 20133 Milan,
Italy.
(2)Gastroenterology and Endoscopy Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda, Ospedale
Maggiore Policlinico, 20122 Milan, Italy.
(3)Department of Experimental Oncology, IEO European Institute of Oncology IRCCS,
20139 Milan, Italy.
(4)Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation, Università degli Studi di
Milano, 20135 Milan, Italy.

Hypersecretion of proinflammatory cytokines and dysregulated activation of the
IL-23/Th17 axis in response to intestinal microbiota dysbiosis are key factors in
the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). In this work, we studied
how Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium strains affect AIEC-LF82 virulence
mechanisms and the consequent inflammatory response linked to the CCR6-CCL20 and 
IL-23/Th17 axes in Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) patients. All
Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium strains significantly reduced the LF82 adhesion
and persistence within HT29 intestinal epithelial cells, inhibiting IL-8
secretion while not affecting the CCR6-CCL20 axis. Moreover, they significantly
reduced LF82 survival within macrophages and dendritic cells, reducing the
secretion of polarizing cytokines related to the IL-23/Th17 axis, both in healthy
donors (HD) and UC patients. In CD patients, however, only B. breve Bbr8 strain
was able to slightly reduce the LF82 persistence within dendritic cells, thus
hampering the IL-23/Th17 axis. In addition, probiotic strains were able to
modulate the AIEC-induced inflammation in HD, reducing TNF-α and increasing IL-10
secretion by macrophages, but failed to do so in IBD patients. Interestingly, the
probiotic strains studied in this work were all able to interfere with the
IL-23/Th17 axis in UC patients, but not in CD patients. The different interaction
mechanisms of probiotic strains with innate immune cells from UC and CD patients 
compared to HD suggest that testing on CD-derived immune cells may be pivotal for
the identification of novel probiotic strains that could be effective also for CD
patients.

DOI: 10.3390/cells9081824 
PMCID: PMC7464949
PMID: 32752244 

