
1. IEEE/ACM Trans Comput Biol Bioinform. 2020 Mar-Apr;17(2):547-557. doi:
10.1109/TCBB.2018.2870124. Epub 2018 Sep 13.

Detection of Colorectal Carcinoma Based on Microbiota Analysis Using Generalized 
Regression Neural Networks and Nonlinear Feature Selection.

Arabameri A, Asemani D, Teymourpour P.

To obtain a screening tool for colorectal cancer (CRC) based on gut microbiota,
we seek here to identify an optimal classifier for CRC detection as well as a
novel nonlinear feature selection method for determining the most discriminative 
microbial species. In this study, the intestinal microflora in feces of 141
patients were modeled using general regression neural networks (GRNNs) combined
with the proposed feature selection method. The proposed model led to slightly
higher accuracy (AUC = 0.911) than previous studies . The results show that the
Clostridium scindens and Bifidobacterium angulatum are indicators of healthy gut 
flora and CRC happens to reduce these bacterial species. In addition,
Fusobacterium gonidiaformans was found to be closely correlated with the CRC. The
occurrence of colorectal adenoma was not sufficiently discriminatory based on
fecal microbiota implicating that the change of colonic flora happens in the
advanced phase of CRC development rather than initial adenoma. Integrating the
proposed model with fecal occult blood test (FOBT), the CRC detection accuracy
remained nearly unchanged (AUC = 0.915). The performance of the proposed method
is validated using independent cohorts from America and Austria. Our results
suggest that the proposed feature selection method combined with GRNN is
potentially an accurate method for CRC detection.

DOI: 10.1109/TCBB.2018.2870124 
PMID: 30222584 

