
1. Food Funct. 2020 Jul 1;11(7):5898-5914. doi: 10.1039/c9fo02761k. Epub 2020 Jun
23.

Lactic acid bacteria reduce diabetes symptoms in mice by alleviating gut
microbiota dysbiosis and inflammation in different manners.

Wang G (1), Si Q , Yang S , Jiao T , Zhu H , Tian P , Wang L , Li X , Gong L ,
Zhao J , Zhang H , Chen W .

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi
214122, P. R. China. gonglei0520@aliyun.com chenwei66@jiangnan.edu.cn.

The prevalence of diabetes mellitus is increasing worldwide. Lactic acid bacteria
have shown efficacy in alleviating diabetes. We studied the remission effect of
nine strains of lactic acid bacteria on the symptoms of high-fat diet- and
streptozotocin-induced type 2 diabetes and its mechanism in mice. The oral
administration of Bifidobacterium adolescentis, B. bifidum or Lactobacillus
rhamnosus to mice every day for more than 12 weeks showed that the individual
strains could reduce the fasting and postprandial blood sugar levels, improve
glucose tolerance and prevent pancreatic damage. However, L. rhamnosus strains
showed greater efficacy than Bifidobacterium strains in the regulation of blood
lipid levels. The effects of lactic acid bacteria on the recovery of glycolipid
metabolism disorder and gut microbiota dysbiosis showed inter- and intraspecific 
differences. In addition, the strains that exhibited hypoglycaemic effects played
a beneficial role in reducing insulin resistance by contributing to the
production of short-chain fatty acids and alleviation of inflammation. The
ability of lactic acid bacteria to reduce inflammation was found to be closely
related to their ability to alleviate diabetes mellitus.

DOI: 10.1039/c9fo02761k 
PMID: 32572400 

