
1. Sci Rep. 2019 Oct 28;9(1):15427. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-51901-7.

Metabolism of the predominant human milk oligosaccharide fucosyllactose by an
infant gut commensal.

James K(1)(2), Bottacini F(1), Contreras JIS(3), Vigoureux M(1), Egan M(1)(2),
Motherway MO(1), Holmes E(3)(4), van Sinderen D(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)APC Microbiome Ireland, University College Cork, Western Road, Cork, Ireland.
(2)School of Microbiology, University College Cork, Western Road, Cork, Ireland.
(3)Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial College London, South Kensington,
London, SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom.
(4)Institute of Health Futures, Murdosh University, South Street, Perth, WA,
6150, Australia.
(5)APC Microbiome Ireland, University College Cork, Western Road, Cork, Ireland. 
d.vansinderen@ucc.ie.
(6)School of Microbiology, University College Cork, Western Road, Cork, Ireland. 
d.vansinderen@ucc.ie.

A number of bifidobacterial species are found at a particularly high prevalence
and abundance in faecal samples of healthy breastfed infants, a phenomenon that
is believed to be, at least partially, due to the ability of bifidobacteria to
metabolize Human Milk Oligosaccharides (HMOs). In the current study, we isolated 
a novel strain of Bifidobacterium kashiwanohense, named APCKJ1, from the faeces
of a four-week old breastfed infant, based on the ability of the strain to
utilise the HMO component fucosyllactose. We then determined the full genome
sequence of this strain, and employed the generated data to analyze
fucosyllactose metabolism in B. kashiwanohense APCKJ1. Transcriptomic and growth 
analyses, combined with metabolite analysis, in vitro hydrolysis assays and
heterologous expression, allowed us to elucidate the pathway for fucosyllactose
metabolism in B. kashiwanohense APCKJ1. Homologs of the key genes for this
metabolic pathway were identified in particular in infant-derived members of the 
Bifdobacterium genus, revealing the apparent niche-specific nature of this
pathway, and allowing a broad perspective on bifidobacterial fucosyllactose and
L-fucose metabolism.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-51901-7 
PMCID: PMC6817895
PMID: 31659215 

