
1. J Agric Food Chem. 2020 Aug 26;68(34):9110-9119. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.0c03628.
Epub 2020 Aug 13.

Commensal Relationship of Three Bifidobacterial Species Leads to Increase of
Bifidobacterium in Vitro Fermentation of Sialylated Immunoglobulin G by Human Gut
Microbiota.

Chen C(1)(2), Li T(1), Chen G(1), Chen D(1), Peng Y(1), Hu B(1), Sun Y(1), Zeng
X(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Food Science and Technology, Nanjing Agricultural University,
Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, China.
(2)College of Food Engineering, Anhui Science and Technology University, Fengyang
233100, Anhui, China.

Sialylated immunoglobulin G (IgG) is an important immunoglobulin in breast milk, 
but its effect on adult gut microbiota is not yet clear due to digestion by
pepsin. Based on our previous IgG protecting study, effects of sialylated IgG on 
gut microbiota were investigated by in vitro anaerobic fermentation in the
present study. It was found that the addition of sialylated IgG could
significantly promote the growth of Bifidobacterium. Meanwhile, three
bifidobacterial species B. bifidum CCX 19061, Bembidion breve CCX 19041, and B.
longum subsp. infantis CCX 19042 were isolated. Furthermore, B. breve CCX 19041
and B. longum subsp. infantis CCX 19042 showed co-culture growth property with B.
bifidum CCX 19061 in a sialylated IgG-based medium, which was also supported by
changes of free monosaccharides and N-glycan structure. These findings suggest
that the increase of Bifidobacterium in vitro fermentation is attributed to the
commensal relationship of the three bifidobacterial species by utilizing sugars
released from sialylated IgG.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.0c03628 
PMID: 32806107 

