
1. Bone. 2020 Aug 11;141:115580. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2020.115580. [Epub ahead of
print]

Bifidobacterium pseudocatenulatum CECT 7765 reverses the adverse effects of
diet-induced obesity through the gut-bone axis.

Fernández-Murga ML(1), Olivares M(2), Sanz Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Microbial Ecology, Nutrition & Health Research Unit, Institute of
Agrochemistry and Food Technology, Spanish National Research Council (IATA-CSIC),
Valencia, Spain. Electronic address: malefer@uv.es.
(2)Microbial Ecology, Nutrition & Health Research Unit, Institute of
Agrochemistry and Food Technology, Spanish National Research Council (IATA-CSIC),
Valencia, Spain.

Obesity and the associated chronic metabolic diseases (e.g., type-2 diabetes)
adversely affect bone metabolism and health. Gut microbiota is considered to be
involved in the pathophysiology of obesity and also represents a therapeutic
target. This study has investigated the contribution of diet-induced obesity to
alterations in bone health and metabolism and whether these could be restored by 
oral administration of Bifidobacterium pseudocatenulatum CECT 7765. To do so,
adult male wild-type C57BL-6 mice were fed either a standard or high-fat diet
(HFD), supplemented or not with B. pseudocatenulatum CECT 7765 (109 CFU/day) for 
14 weeks. Effects on bone mass density (BMD), bone mineral content, bone
remodeling, bone structure and gene expression were assessed. In HFD-fed mice,
bone microstructural properties at the distal femur showed deteriorated
trabecular architecture in bone volumetric fraction, trabecular number and
trabecular pattern factor. Besides, the HFD reduced the volumetric bone mineral
density in the trabecular bone, but not in the cortical bone. All these bone
microstructural alterations found in obese mice were reversed by B.
pseudocatenulatum CECT 7765. Administration of the bacterium increased (p < .05) 
the Wnt/β-catenin pathway gene expression, which could mediate effects on BMD.
Bifidobacterium pseudocatenulatum CECT 7765 supplementation increased (p < .05)
serum osteocalcin (OC, bone formation parameter), and decreased serum C-terminal 
telopeptide (CTX) (p < .01) and parathormone (PTH) (p < .05) (both bone
resorption parameters). It also altered the microstructure of the femur. In
summary, HFD interfered with the normal bone homeostasis leading to increased
bone loss. In obese mice, B. pseudocatenulatum CECT 7765 lowered bone mass loss
and enhanced BMD by decreasing bone resorption and increasing bone formation.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bone.2020.115580 
PMID: 32795675 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no conflicts of interest.

