
1. Allergy Asthma Proc. 2020 Sep 1;41(5):372-385. doi: 10.2500/aap.2020.41.200064.

Treg-inducing capacity of genomic DNA of Bifidobacterium longum subsp. infantis.

Li D(1), Cheng J(1), Zhu Z(1), Catalfamo M(1), Goerlitz D(2), Lawless OJ(3),
Tallon L(4), Sadzewicz L(4), Calderone R(1), Bellanti JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Microbiology-Immunology, Georgetown University Medical 
Center, Washington, D.C.
(2)Genomics and Epigenomics Shared Resource, Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer
Center, Georgetown University, Washington, D.C.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington,
D.C.; and.
(4)Genomic Resource Center, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland.

Background: Allergic and autoimmune diseases comprise a group of inflammatory
disorders caused by aberrant immune responses in which CD25+ forkhead box
P3-positive regulatory T cells (Treg) cells that normally suppress inflammatory
events are often poorly functioning. This has stimulated an intensive
investigative effort to find ways of increasing Tregs as a method of therapy for 
these conditions. Commensal microbiota known to have health benefits in humans
include the lactic acid-producing, probiotic bacteria B. longum subsp. infantis
and Lactobacillus rhamnosus. Mechanistically, several mechanisms have been
proposed to explain how probiotics may favorably affect host immunity, including 
the induction of Tregs. Analysis of emerging data from several laboratories,
including our own, suggest that DNA methylation may be an important determinant
of immune reactivity responsible for Treg induction. Although methylated CpG
moieties in normal mammalian DNA are both noninflammatory and lack
immunogenicity, unmethylated CpGs, found largely in microbial DNA, are
immunostimulatory and display proinflammatory properties. Objective: We
hypothesize that microbiota with more DNA methylation may potentiate Treg
induction to a greater degree than microbiota with a lower content of
methylation. The purpose of the present study was to test this hypothesis by
studying the methylation status of whole genomic DNA (gDNA) and the Treg-inducing
capacity of purified gDNA in each of the probiotic bacteria B. longum subsp.
infantis and L. rhamnosus, and a pathogenic Escherichia coli strain B. Results:
We showed that gDNA from B. longum subsp. infantis is a potent Treg inducer that 
displays a dose-dependent response pattern at a dose threshold of 20 Âµg of gDNA. 
No similar Treg-inducing responses were observed with the gDNA from L. rhamnosus 
or E. coli. We identified a unique CpG methylated motif in the gDNA sequencing of
B. longum subsp. infantis which was not found in L. rhamnosus or E. coli strain
B. Conclusion: Although the literature indicates that both B. longum subsp.
infantis and L. rhamnosus strains contribute to health, our data suggest that
they do so by different mechanisms. Further, because of its small molecular size,
low cost, ease of synthesis, and unique Treg-inducing feature, this methylated
CpG oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) from B. longum would offer many attractive
features for an ideal novel therapeutic vaccine candidate for the treatment of
immunologic diseases, such as the allergic and autoimmune disorders, in which
Treg populations are diminished.

DOI: 10.2500/aap.2020.41.200064 
PMID: 32867892 

