
1. Food Res Int. 2020 Oct;136:109520. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109520. Epub 2020 
Jul 13.

Potential of solid lipid microparticles covered by the protein-polysaccharide
complex for protection of probiotics and proanthocyanidin-rich cinnamon extract.

Tasch Holkem A(1), Favaro-Trindade CS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade de São Paulo, Faculdade de Zootecnia e Engenharia de alimentos,
Av. Duque de Caxias Norte, 225, CEP 13635-900, Pirassununga, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Universidade de São Paulo, Faculdade de Zootecnia e Engenharia de alimentos,
Av. Duque de Caxias Norte, 225, CEP 13635-900, Pirassununga, São Paulo, Brazil.
Electronic address: carmenft@usp.br.

Probiotics and proanthocyanidin-rich cinnamon extract (PRCE) have numerous
potential health benefits, but they are very sensitive to degradation in various 
environmental conditions. Additionally, the combination of these two materials
into a single structure could possibly enhance their therapeutic properties.
Thus, the aim of this study was to produce and evaluate the solid lipid
microparticles covered by electrostatic interactions of polymers in which
Lactobacillus paracasei (BGP1) and Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis (BLC1) 
were either encapsulated alone or co-encapsulated with PRCE. Through
turbidimetric titration and zeta potential measurement, the optimum coacervates
were obtained at a pH of 4.2 with the protein:polysaccharide mixing ratio of 6:1.
Along with quantification of the probiotics, total phenolic compounds, and
proanthocyanidins, morphological and physicochemical characterizations were
performed during storage for 120 days at both 7 and 25 °C. All the produced
powders had similar morphological and physicochemical properties. The treatments 
with BLC1 and 5% PRCE presented greater encapsulation efficiencies for probiotic,
phenolics, and proanthocyanids with 98.59% ± 0.45, 119.49% ± 4.21, and 81.25% ±
1.9, respectively. Additionally, there was greater viability for BLC1
(9.30 ± 0.16 log CFU / g) after 120 days of storage at 7 °C. In conclusion, solid
lipid particles with BLC1 and 5% PRCE are a promising solution for the
preservation and consumption of both materials.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109520 
PMID: 32846591 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

