
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Oct;103(10):8791-8795. doi: 10.3168/jds.2019-18049. Epub 2020
Aug 26.

Short communication: Modulation of fatty acid metabolism improves oxygen
tolerance of Bifidobacterium animalis ssp. lactis Probio-M8.

Zhang W(1), Wang Y(1), Li K(1), Kwok LY(1), Liu W(1), Zhang H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Ministry of Education, 
Key Laboratory of Dairy Products Processing, Ministry of Agriculture, Inner
Mongolia Agricultural University, Huhhot 010018, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Ministry of Education, 
Key Laboratory of Dairy Products Processing, Ministry of Agriculture, Inner
Mongolia Agricultural University, Huhhot 010018, China. Electronic address:
hepingdd@vip.sina.com.

Bifidobacterium animalis ssp. lactis Probio-M8 is a potential probiotic strain
that was isolated from human milk. Previously, we obtained an oxygen-resistant
variant (Probio-M8o) of Probio-M8 by an adaptive evolution strategy. In the
present study, a comparative transcriptomic analysis of Probio-M8o and Probio-M8 
was carried out to reveal the cellular mechanism of the oxygen-resistant
phenotype. Using RNA-seq, 210 and 217 differentially expressed genes were
identified in Probio-M8o compared with Probio-M8 after oxygen exposure for 30 and
60 min, respectively. The oxygen treatment upregulated a set of genes that
encoded proteins responsible for fatty acid biosynthesis. This observation was in
good agreement with the composition change in fatty acids at the biochemical
level. Our study showed that the oxygen-resistant phenotype could be related to
adaptation of fatty acid metabolism.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2019-18049 
PMID: 32861486 

