
1. Clin Nutr ESPEN. 2020 Oct;39:255-259. doi: 10.1016/j.clnesp.2020.05.020. Epub
2020 Jul 26.

Does probiotic bacteremia in premature infants impact clinically relevant
outcomes? A case report and updated review of literature.

Pillai A(1), Tan J(2), Paquette V(3), Panczuk J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neonatology, Surya Mother and Child Super Specialty Hospital,
Mumbai, Maharashtra, India. Electronic address: anishgp1@yahoo.co.in.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, British Columbia Women's and Children's Hospital,
Vancouver, BC, Canada; Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada. Electronic address: jason.tan@cw.bc.ca.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, British Columbia Women's and Children's Hospital,
Vancouver, BC, Canada; Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada. Electronic address: vpaquette@phsa.ca.
(4)Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, British Columbia
Women's Hospital and Health Centre, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC
Canada. Electronic address: jpanczuk@cw.bc.ca.

Prophylactic use of probiotics decreases the incidence of necrotizing
enterocolitis (NEC) in premature infants. However, there are ongoing concerns
related to the routine use of probiotics including inconsistent literature
regarding optimal dose and strain, lack of regulatory standards in production and
reports regarding potential side effects. There is limited data regarding the
incidence of probiotic bacteremia and its impact on relevant clinical outcomes in
the premature population. We report the first case of Bifidobacterium longum
bacteremia in our center since the routine introduction of probiotics. The
neonate had NEC with perforation on day of life 7, which likely led to
translocation of the probiotic strain to the blood stream. The neonate did not
have any hemodynamic instability and the repeat blood culture was negative after 
starting antibiotic therapy. We also conducted a literature review and found 13
other cases of probiotic bacteremia in premature or very low birth weight
neonates. Although the incidence of probiotic bacteremia is low, it can impact
several clinical outcomes including prolonged exposure to antibiotics, removal of
central lines and additional laboratory testing such as lumbar puncture. There
has been no mortality attributable to probiotic bacteremia and there is no data
regarding long term neurodevelopmental outcomes.

Copyright Â© 2020 European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism.
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnesp.2020.05.020 
PMID: 32859326 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors do 
not have any conflict of interest to report.

