
1. iScience. 2020 Jul 24;23(7):101336. doi: 10.1016/j.isci.2020.101336. Epub 2020
Jul 2.

Bifidobacterium breve UCC2003 Induces a Distinct Global Transcriptomic Program in
Neonatal Murine Intestinal Epithelial Cells.

Kiu R(1), Treveil A(2), Harnisch LC(1), Caim S(1), Leclaire C(1), van Sinderen
D(3), Korcsmaros T(2), Hall LJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Gut Microbes & Health, Quadram Institute Bioscience, Norwich Research Park,
Norwich NR4 7UQ, UK.
(2)Gut Microbes & Health, Quadram Institute Bioscience, Norwich Research Park,
Norwich NR4 7UQ, UK; Earlham Institute, Norwich Research Park, Norwich NR4 7UZ,
UK.
(3)APC Microbiome Ireland & School of Microbiology, University College Cork, Cork
T12YT20, Ireland.
(4)Gut Microbes & Health, Quadram Institute Bioscience, Norwich Research Park,
Norwich NR4 7UQ, UK; Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich
Research Park, Norwich NR4 7TJ, UK; Chair of Intestinal Microbiome, School of
Life Sciences, Technical University of Munich, 85354 Freising, Germany; ZIEL -
Institute for Food & Health, Technical University of Munich, 85354 Freising,
Germany. Electronic address: lindsay.hall@quadram.ac.uk.

The underlying health-driving mechanisms of Bifidobacterium during early life are
not well understood, particularly how this microbiota member may modulate the
intestinal barrier via programming of intestinal epithelial cells (IECs). We
investigated the impact of Bifidobacterium breve UCC2003 on the transcriptome of 
neonatal murine IECs. Small IECs from two-week-old neonatal mice administered B. 
breve UCC2003 or PBS (control) were subjected to global RNA sequencing, and
differentially expressed genes, pathways, and affected cell types were
determined. We observed extensive regulation of the IEC transcriptome with ∼4,000
genes significantly up-regulated, including key genes linked with epithelial
barrier function. Enrichment of cell differentiation pathways was observed, along
with an overrepresentation of stem cell marker genes, indicating an increase
in the regenerative potential of the epithelial layer. In conclusion, B. breve
UCC2003 plays a central role in driving intestinal epithelium homeostatic
development during early life and suggests future avenues for next-stage clinical
studies.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2020.101336 
PMCID: PMC7371750
PMID: 32683312 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests The authors declare no
competing interests.

