
1. Biosci Microbiota Food Health. 2020;39(3):145-151. doi: 10.12938/bmfh.2019-022.
Epub 2020 Mar 11.

Bifidobacterium bifidum G9-1 ameliorates soft feces induced by metformin without 
affecting its antihyperglycemic action.

Makizaki Y(1), Maeda A(1), Yamamoto M(1), Tamura S(1), Tanaka Y(1), Nakajima
S(1), Ohno H(1).

Author information: 
(1)R&D Center, Biofermin Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., 7-3-4 Higashi-machi, Ibukidai,
Nishi-ku, Kobe, Hyogo 651-2242, Japan.

Recent studies of metformin, the first-line drug for type 2 diabetes, have
reported the involvement of gut microbiota in the mechanism underlying its
antihyperglycemic effect. However, the mechanisms underlying the development of
diarrhea and bloating, which are adverse effects of metformin, are unclear, and
these effects decrease the quality of life of metformin-receiving patients with
diabetes. In this study, we focused on the effects of metformin on gut
microbiota. Namely, we examined the effects of Bifidobacterium bifidum G9-1
(BBG9-1), which has the ability to improve dysbiosis, on the changes in gut
microbiota and occurrence of soft feces (increased fecal water content) during
the administration of metformin. The results showed that coadministration of
BBG9-1 and metformin suppressed metformin-mediated changes in the gut microbiota 
and, thus, soft feces. Meanwhile, BBG9-1 did not influence the antihyperglycemic 
effect of metformin. Based on these results, we believe that BBG9-1, which could 
improve gut microbiota, suppresses metformin-induced soft feces without
influencing the drug's antihyperglycemic effect.

Â©2020 BMFH Press.

DOI: 10.12938/bmfh.2019-022 
PMCID: PMC7392920
PMID: 32775133 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to
declare.

