
1. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2020 Aug 26. doi: 10.1007/s12602-020-09702-2.
[Epub ahead of print]

The Administration Matrix Modifies the Beneficial Properties of a Probiotic Mix
of Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis BB-12 and Lactobacillus acidophilus
LA-5.

Pápai G(1)(2), Torres-Maravilla E(3), Chain F(3), Varga-Visi É(1), Antal O(2),
Naár Z(2), Bermúdez-Humarán LG(3), Langella P(3), Martín R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Agricultural and Environmental Science, Institute of Physiology,
Biochemistry and Animal Health, Kaposvár University, Kaposvár, Hungary.
(2)Department of Nutritional Physiology, Food Science Research Institute,
National Agricultural Research and Innovation Center, Budapest, Hungary.
(3)Equipe Interactions des Micro-organismes Commensaux et Probiotiques avec
l'Hôte (ProbiHôte), Université Paris-Saclay, INRAE, AgroParisTech, Micalis
Institute, 78350, Jouy-en-Josas, France.
(4)Equipe Interactions des Micro-organismes Commensaux et Probiotiques avec
l'Hôte (ProbiHôte), Université Paris-Saclay, INRAE, AgroParisTech, Micalis
Institute, 78350, Jouy-en-Josas, France. Rebeca.martin-rosique@inrae.fr.

Consumption of dairy products is one of the most natural ways to introduce
probiotics. However, the beneficial effects of the probiotics might depend on the
administration form. The aim of this study was to investigate the beneficial
properties of two probiotic strains: Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis
(BB-12) and Lactobacillus acidophilus (LA-5) in different administration forms
(capsules and yogurt). First, in vitro resistance to gastrointestinal condition, 
surface properties, and immunomodulation capacities were determined. Then, the
anti-inflammatory properties of the probiotic strains administrated on yogurt or 
capsules were tested in a dinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (DNBS)-induced colitis
mouse model. The survival rates of BB-12 and LA-5 strains to gastrointestinal
conditions were slightly higher when yogurt was used as carrier. They showed most
affinity to hexane (no-polar basic solvent) than ethyl-acetate (polar basic
solvent). BB-12 showed the higher binding capacity to HT-29, Caco-2, and mucin.
Both probiotic candidates suppress the secretion of IL-8 secretion by HT-29-TNF-α
stimulated cells. Finally, administration of BB-12 and LA-5 strains improve
colitis in mice. They protect against weight loss, inflammation, and
hyperpermeability induced by DNBS. However, these anti-inflammatory effects were 
limited when mice were treated with the probiotic strain on a yogurt matrix.
Overall results indicate that BB-12 and LA-5 positive properties are compromised 
depending on the matrix. Consequently, the selection of an appropriate matrix is 
an important criterion to conserve the positive benefits of these probiotic
strains.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-020-09702-2 
PMID: 32851584 

