
1. Cancer Manag Res. 2020 Sep 7;12:8125-8135. doi: 10.2147/CMAR.S265205. eCollection
2020.

Changes of Intestinal Microbiota in Ovarian Cancer Patients Treated with Surgery 
and Chemotherapy.

Tong J(1)(2), Zhang X(1)(2), Fan Y(3), Chen L(1)(2)(3), Ma X(1)(2), Yu H(1)(2),
Li J(1)(2), Guan X(1)(2), Zhao P(1)(2), Yang J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Assisted Reproduction Unit, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Sir Run
Run Shaw Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, People's
Republic of China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Reproductive Dysfunction Management of Zhejiang Province,
Hangzhou, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, First People's Hospital of Wenling, 
Wenling, People's Republic of China.

Purpose: Ovarian cancer is the leading cause of death in gynecologic
malignancies. Growing evidences demonstrate that a complicated relationship
exists between the gut microbiota and cancer treatment. However, there are few
studies explored the alterations of gut microbiota in ovarian cancer patients
following anti-cancer treatments. Therefore, we aim to analyze the changes of the
gut microbiota in ovarian cancer patients treated with radical surgery and
chemotherapy.
Patients and Methods: The microbial genes were examined from a total of 75 fecal 
samples from 18 ovarian cancer patients, including 10 preoperative fecal samples 
(Group B), 4 postoperative fecal samples (Group M0), as well as 61 fecal samples 
after first to fifth cycles of chemotherapy, using 16S rRNA sequencing.
Results: Our results showed that fecal samples collected in postoperative (Group 
M0) exhibited significant decreases in abundance of Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes,
while a significant increase in abundance of Proteobacteria compared with
preoperative (Group B) fecal samples. LEfSe analysis identified that Bilophila
and Faecalibacterium are the key genera in Group B, while Klebsiella and
Enterococcus are the key genus in Group M0. Compared with before chemotherapy,
the abundance of Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes increased, and the abundance of
Proteobacteria decreased after chemotherapy. In addition, anaerobic bacteria,
such as Bacteroides, Collinsella and Blautia, exhibited significant increases
after chemotherapy. Moreover, we observed that certain bacterial genera were
significantly correlated with clinicopathological characteristics of ovarian
cancer patients.
Conclusion: Our study suggested that radical surgery and chemotherapy altered the
composition of gut microbiota in ovarian cancer patients. Therapeutic strategies 
targeting the gut microbiota may be beneficial for the clinical treatment of
ovarian cancer.

Â© 2020 Tong et al.

DOI: 10.2147/CMAR.S265205 
PMCID: PMC7494227
PMID: 32982410 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in
this work.

