
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Jun 29;21(13). pii: E4608. doi: 10.3390/ijms21134608.

Lactobacillus plantarum DR7 Modulated Bowel Movement and Gut Microbiota
Associated with Dopamine and Serotonin Pathways in Stressed Adults.

Liu G(1), Chong HX(2), Chung FY(2), Li Y(1), Liong MT(2).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Microbial Physiological and Metabolic Engineering, State
Key Laboratory of Microbial Resources, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy
of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.
(2)School of Industrial Technology, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Penang 11800,
Malaysia.

We have previously reported that the administration of Lactobacillus plantarum
DR7 for 12 weeks reduced stress and anxiety in stressed adults as compared to the
placebo group, in association with changes along the brain neurotransmitters
pathways of serotonin and dopamine-norepinephrine. We now aim to evaluate the
effects of DR7 on gut functions, gut microbiota compositional changes, and
determine the correlations between microbiota changes and the pathways of brain
neurotransmitters. The administration of DR7 prevented an increase of defecation 
frequency over 12 weeks as compared to the placebo (p = 0.044), modulating the
increase of stress-induced bowel movement. Over 12 weeks, alpha diversity of gut 
microbiota was higher in DR7 than the placebo group across class (p = 0.005) and 
order (p = 0.018) levels, while beta diversity differed between groups at class
and order levels (p < 0.001). Differences in specific bacterial groups were
identified, showing consistency at different taxonomic levels that survived
multiplicity correction, along the phyla of Bacteroides and Firmicutes and along 
the classes of Deltaproteobacteria and Actinobacteria. Bacteroidetes,
Bacteroidia, and Bacteroidales which were reduced in abundance in the placebo
group showed opposing correlation with gene expression of dopamine beta hydrolase
(DBH, dopamine pathway; p < 0.001), while Bacteroidia and Bacteroidales showed
correlation with tryptophan hydroxylase-II (TPH2, serotonin pathway; p = 0.001). 
A correlation was observed between DBH and Firmicutes (p = 0.002), Clostridia (p 
< 0.001), Clostridiales (p = 0.001), Blautia (p < 0.001), and Romboutsia (p <
0.001), which were increased in abundance in the placebo group. Blautia was also 
associated with TDO (p = 0.001), whereas Romboutsia had an opposing correlation
with TPH2 (p < 0.001). Deltaproteobacteria and Desulfovibrionales which were
decreased in abundance in the placebo group showed opposing correlation with DBH 
(p = 0.001), whereas Bilophila was associated with TPH2 (p = 0.001). Our present 
data showed that physiological changes induced by L. plantarum DR7 could be
associated with changes in specific taxa of the gut microbiota along the
serotonin and dopamine pathways.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21134608 
PMCID: PMC7370301
PMID: 32610495 

