
1. Chin J Nat Med. 2020 Jun;18(6):446-459. doi: 10.1016/S1875-5364(20)30052-2.

Dendrobium officinale Kimura et Migo and American ginseng mixture: A Chinese
herbal formulation for gut microbiota modulation.

Liu CZ(1), Chen W(2), Wang MX(1), Wang Y(1), Chen LQ(2), Zhao F(3), Shi Y(1), Liu
HJ(1), Dou XB(4), Liu C(5), Chen H(6).

Author information: 
(1)Key laboratory of Microbial technology and Bioinformatics of Zhejiang
Province, Zhejiang Institute of Microbiology, Hangzhou 310012, China; NMPA Key
laboratory for Testing and Risk Warning of Pharmaceutical Microbiology, Zhejiang 
Institute of Microbiology, Hangzhou 310012, China.
(2)Hangzhou Huqing yu tang Traditional Chinese Medicine Mordernize Institute,
Hangzhou 311100, China.
(3)Key laboratory of Microbial technology and Bioinformatics of Zhejiang
Province, Zhejiang Institute of Microbiology, Hangzhou 310012, China; NMPA Key
laboratory for Testing and Risk Warning of Pharmaceutical Microbiology, Zhejiang 
Institute of Microbiology, Hangzhou 310012, China; College of Life Science,
Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou 310053, China.
(4)College of Life Science, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou 310053,
China.
(5)Department of Orthopaedics, Sir Sun Run Shaw Hospital, School of Medicine,
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310009, China. Electronic address:
liuchaozju@zju.edu.cn.
(6)Key laboratory of Microbial technology and Bioinformatics of Zhejiang
Province, Zhejiang Institute of Microbiology, Hangzhou 310012, China; NMPA Key
laboratory for Testing and Risk Warning of Pharmaceutical Microbiology, Zhejiang 
Institute of Microbiology, Hangzhou 310012, China. Electronic address:
chenhuan7809@gmail.com.

Dendrobium officinale Kimura et Migo (D. officinale) is a famous traditional
Chinese medicine (TCM). A mixture of D. officinale and American ginseng has been 
shown to enhance cell-mediated immunity, humoral immunity, and
monocyte/macrophage functions in mice. Here, the effects of a D. officinale and
American ginseng mixture on the structure of gut microbial community in dogs were
examined using high-throughput 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. The data
revealed that while the mixture did not change the diversity of gut microbial
community significantly, differences among individuals were significantly
reduced. Furthermore, the mixture-responsive operational taxonomic units (OTUs)
exhibited a phase-dependent expression pattern. Fifty-five OTUs were found to
exhibit a mixture-induced expression pattern, among which one third were
short-chain fatty acid (SCFA)-producing genera and the others were probiotic
genera included Lactobacillus spp., Sutterella, Alistipes, Anaerovorax,
Bilophila, Coprococcus, Gordonibacter, Oscillibacter, among others. By contrast, 
36% of the OTUs exhibiting a mixture-repressed expression pattern were
disease-associated microorganisms, and six genera, namely Actinomyces,
Escherichia/Shigella, Fusobacterium, Slackia, Streptococcus and Solobacterium,
were associated with cancer. In addition, five genera were closely associated
with diabetes, namely Collinsella, Rothia, Howardella, Slackia and
Intestinibacter. Our results indicate that this D. officinale and American
ginseng mixture may be used as a prebiotic agent to enhance SCFA-producing genera
and prevent gut dysbiosis.

Copyright Â© 2020 China Pharmaceutical University. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1875-5364(20)30052-2 
PMID: 32503736 

