
1. Front Oncol. 2020 Jul 7;10:902. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2020.00902. eCollection 2020.

Gut Microbiota Profiling in Patients With HER2-Negative Metastatic Breast Cancer 
Receiving Metronomic Chemotherapy of Capecitabine Compared to Those Under
Conventional Dosage.

Guan X(1), Ma F(1)(2), Sun X(1), Li C(2), Li L(1), Liang F(3), Li S(3), Yi Z(1), 
Liu B(1), Xu B(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, National Cancer Center/National Clinical
Research Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences
and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology, Chinese Academy of Medical
Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Human Microbiome, Promegene Institute, Shenzhen, China.

Purpose: Low-dose metronomic chemotherapy can achieve disease control with
reduced toxicity compared to conventional chemotherapy in maximum tolerated dose.
Characterizing the gut microbiota of cancer patients under different dosage
regimens may describe a new role of gut microbiota associated with drug efficacy.
Therefore, we evaluated the composition and the function of gut microbiome
associated with metronomic capecitabine compared to conventional dosage. Methods:
The fecal samples of HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer patients treated with
capecitabine as maintenance chemotherapy were collected and analyzed by 16S
ribosome RNA gene sequencing. Results: A total of 15 patients treated with
metronomic capecitabine were compared to 16 patients under a conventional dose.
The unweighted-unifrac index of the metronomic group was statistically
significantly lower than that of the routine group (P = 0.025). Besides that, the
Bray-Curtis distance-based redundancy analysis illustrated that the microbial
genera between the two groups can be separated partly. Nine Kyoto Encyclopedia of
Genes and Genomes (KEGG) modules were enriched in the metronomic group, while no 
KEGG modules were significantly enriched in the routine group. Moreover,
univariate and multivariate analyses suggested that the median progression-free
survival (PFS) was significantly shorter in patients with the gut microbial
composition of Slackia (9.2 vs. 32.7 months, P = 0.004), while the patients with 
Blautia obeum had a significantly prolonged PFS than those without (32.7 vs. 12.9
months, P = 0.013). Conclusions: The proof-of-principle study suggested that the 
gut microbiota of patients receiving metronomic chemotherapy was different in
terms of diversity, composition, and function from those under conventional
chemotherapy, and the presence of specific bacterial species may act as microbial
markers associated with drug resistance monitoring and prognostic evaluation.

Copyright Â© 2020 Guan, Ma, Sun, Li, Li, Liang, Li, Yi, Liu and Xu.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2020.00902 
PMCID: PMC7358584
PMID: 32733788 

