
1. Front Microbiol. 2019 Nov 1;10:2449. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02449. eCollection
2019.

Mutual Metabolic Interactions in Co-cultures of the Intestinal Anaerostipes
rhamnosivorans With an Acetogen, Methanogen, or Pectin-Degrader Affecting
Butyrate Production.

Bui TPN(1), Schols HA(2), Jonathan M(2), Stams AJM(1), de Vos WM(1)(3), Plugge
CM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Microbiology, Wageningen University & Research, Wageningen,
Netherlands.
(2)Laboratory of Food Chemistry, Wageningen University & Research, Wageningen,
Netherlands.
(3)Human Microbiome Research Programme, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

The human intestinal tract harbors diverse and complex microbial communities that
have a vast metabolic capacity including the breakdown of complex carbohydrates
into short chain fatty acids, acetate, propionate, and butyrate. As butyrate is
beneficial for gut health there is much attention on butyrogenic bacteria and
their role in the colonic anaerobic food chain. However, our understanding how
production of butyrate by gut microorganisms is controlled by interactions
between different species and environmental nutrient availability is very
limited. To address this, we set up experimental in vitro co-culture systems to
study the metabolic interactions of Anaerostipes rhamnosivorans, a butyrate
producer with each of its partners; Blautia hydrogenotrophica, an acetogen;
Methanobrevibacter smithii, a methanogen and Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, a
versatile degrader of plant cell wall pectins; through corresponding specific
cross-feeding. In all co-cultures, A. rhamnosivorans was able to benefit from its
partner for enhanced butyrate formation compared to monocultures. Interspecies
transfer of hydrogen or formate from A. rhamnosivorans to the acetogen B.
hydrogenotrophica and in turn of acetate from the acetogen to the butyrogen were 
essential for butyrate formation. A. rhamnosivorans grown on glucose supported
growth of M. smithii via interspecies formate/hydrogen transfer enhancing
butyrate formation. In the co-culture with pectin, lactate was released by B.
thetaiotaomicron which was concomitantly used by A. rhamnosivorans for the
production of butyrate. Our findings indicate enhanced butyrate formation through
microbe-microbe interactions between A. rhamnosivorans and an acetogen, a
methanogen or a pectin-degrader. Such microbial interactions enhancing butyrate
formation may be beneficial for colonic health.

Copyright Â© 2019 Bui, Schols, Jonathan, Stams, de Vos and Plugge.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02449 
PMCID: PMC6839446
PMID: 31736896 

