
1. PLoS Pathog. 2020 Aug 10;16(8):e1008512. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1008512.
eCollection 2020 Aug.

Cytotoxicity of the effector protein BteA was attenuated in Bordetella
pertussis by insertion of an alanine residue.

Bayram J(1), Malcova I(1), Sinkovec L(1), Holubova J(1), Streparola G(2),
Jurnecka D(1), Kucera J(2), Sedlacek R(2), Sebo P(1), Kamanova J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Microbiology of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague, Czech
Republic.
(2)Czech Centre for Phenogenomics, Institute of Molecular Genetics of the Czech
Academy of Sciences, Vestec, Czech Republic.

Bordetella bronchiseptica and Bordetella pertussis are closely related
respiratory pathogens that evolved from a common bacterial ancestor. While B.
bronchiseptica has an environmental reservoir and mostly establishes chronic
infections in a broad range of mammals, B. pertussis is a human-specific pathogen
causing acute pulmonary pertussis in infants and whooping cough illness in older 
humans. Both species employ a type III secretion system (T3SS) to inject a
cytotoxic BteA effector protein into host cells. However, compared to the high
BteA-mediated cytotoxicity of B. bronchiseptica, the cytotoxicity induced by B.
pertussis BteA (Bp BteA) appears to be quite low and this has been attributed to 
the reduced T3SS gene expression in B. pertussis. We show that the presence of an
alanine residue inserted at position 503 (A503) of Bp BteA accounts for its
strongly attenuated cytotoxic potency. The deletion of A503 from Bp BteA greatly 
enhanced the cytotoxic activity of B. pertussis B1917 on mammalian HeLa cells and
expression of Bp BteAΔA503 was highly toxic to Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells.
Vice versa, insertion of A503 into B. bronchiseptica BteA (Bb BteA) strongly
decreased its cytotoxicity to yeast and HeLa cells. Moreover, the production of
Bp BteAΔA503 increased virulence of B. pertussis B1917 in the mouse model of
intranasal infection (reduced LD50) but yielded less inflammatory pathology in
infected mouse lungs at sublethal infectious doses. This suggests that A503
insertion in the T3SS effector Bp BteA may represent an evolutionary adaptation
that fine-tunes B. pertussis virulence and host immune response.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1008512 
PMCID: PMC7446853
PMID: 32776984  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

