
1. Front Vet Sci. 2020 Jun 2;7:304. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2020.00304. eCollection 2020.

Occurrence and Predictors of Bacterial Respiratory Tract Infections and
Antimicrobial Resistance Among Isolates From Dogs Presented With Lower
Respiratory Tract Infections at a Referral Veterinary Hospital in South Africa.

Qekwana DN(1), Naidoo V(2), Oguttu JW(3), Odoi A(1)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Section Veterinary Public Health, Department of Paraclinical Sciences, Faculty
of Veterinary Science, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa.
(2)Faculty of Veterinary Science, University of Pretoria Biomedical Research
Centre, Pretoria, South Africa.
(3)Department of Agriculture and Animal Health, College of Agriculture and
Environmental Sciences, University of South Africa, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(4)Department of Biomedical and Diagnostic Sciences, College of Veterinary
Medicine, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Knoxville, TN, United States.

Background: Respiratory tract infections (RTIs) associated with Pasteurella
multocida, Bordetella bronchiseptica, Streptococci, Staphylococci, and
Pseudomonas species have been reported in dogs. The objective of this study was
to investigate the occurrence and predictors of bacterial RTIs and antimicrobial 
resistance among samples from dogs with lower RTIs at a referral veterinary
teaching hospital in South Africa. Methods: Records of 157 dogs with lower RTIs
presented to the veterinary teaching hospital between 2007 and 2013 were included
in the study. Crude and factor-specific proportions of RTIs and antimicrobial
resistance by breed, season, year, sex, age category, and specimen type were
computed. Chi-square or Fisher's exact tests were used to compare proportions of 
RTIs and antimicrobial resistant isolates across categorical variables.
Associations between breed, season, year, sex, age, specimen, and odds of RTIs or
multidrug resistance were assessed using Generalized Estimating Equations.
Results: There was only one sample per clinical case and bacterial RTIs were
observed in 53.5% of the samples tested. Pasteurella species (23.5%) were more
common than other species. Almost all (99.5%) isolates were resistant to at least
one antimicrobial, while 64.7% were multidrug resistant (MDR). Additionally,
17.0% and 3.3% showed evidence of extensive drug resistance (XDR) and pan-drug
resistance (PDR), respectively. The majority of MDR isolates were resistant to
penicillin-G (90.9%), lincomycin (100%), tylosine (75.8%), lincospectin (73.7%), 
ampicillin (72.5%), and kanamycin (68.4%). None of the investigated predictors
had significant association with RTIs or antimicrobial resistance. Conclusion:
Pasturella species were the most common causes of RTIs. The high levels of MDR
and the presence of both XDR and PDR isolates raise the question of the
effectiveness of the current antimicrobial therapy used in patients with RTIs in 
referral hospitals. Given the high level of resistance observed in this study, it
is advisable that the choice of antimicrobials for treatment of RTIs be based on 
antibiograms. This will ensure use of the most efficacious antimicrobials and
will minimize treatment failures among cases presented with RTIs.

Copyright Â© 2020 Qekwana, Naidoo, Oguttu and Odoi.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2020.00304 
PMCID: PMC7280450
PMID: 32582780 

