
1. Can J Vet Res. 2020 Jul;84(3):181-188.

Prevalence of feline herpesvirus-1, feline calicivirus, Chlamydia felis, and
Bordetella bronchiseptica in a population of shelter cats on Prince Edward
Island.

Walter J(1), Foley P(1), Yason C(1), Vanderstichel R(1), Muckle A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Companion Animals (Walter, Foley), AVC Diagnostic Services
(Yason), Department of Health Management (Vanderstichel), Department of Pathology
and Microbiology (Muckle), Atlantic Veterinary College, University of Prince
Edward Island, 550 University Avenue, Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island C1A
4P3.

The prevalence of the causative agents of feline upper respiratory tract disease 
(URTD) has been previously documented in many regions worldwide, but has yet to
be reported in eastern Canada. The objectives of this study were to determine the
prevalence of feline herpesvirus-1 (FHV-1), feline calicivirus (FCV), Chlamydia
felis (C. felis), and Bordetella bronchiseptica (B. bronchiseptica) in a
population of shelter cats with clinical signs related to URTD on Prince Edward
Island, Canada; to compare the prevalence of FHV-1 and FCV as detected by
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and virus isolation (VI) in this population; and 
lastly, to determine whether factors, such as co-infections, time of year,
concurrent feline leukemia virus (FeLV)- or feline immunodeficiency virus
(FIV)-positive status, or clinical signs, were associated with prevalence of
particular pathogens. Conjunctival, nasal mucosal, and oropharyngeal swabs were
collected from 82 cats with clinical signs consistent with URTD. Samples were
pooled in transport medium and PCR was used to detect FHV-1, FCV, and C. felis
and VI was also used to detect FHV-1 and FCV. A separate swab was submitted for
aerobic bacterial culture to detect B. bronchiseptica. Feline herpesvirus-1
(FHV-1) was the most prevalent in this population, followed by C. felis, B.
bronchiseptica, and FCV. Of the 4 cats that were positive for B. bronchiseptica, 
3 were concurrently positive for FHV-1. All positive B. bronchiseptica cultures
were resistant to cefovecin. The prevalence for FHV-1 was lowest in autumn
(seasons P < 0.001) and was positively associated with the presence of nasal
discharge (P = 0.018) and coughing (P = 0.043).

Publisher: La prévalence des agents causals de maladies du tractus respiratoire
supérieur félin (URTD) a été préalablement documentée dans plusieurs régions du
monde mais n’a pas encore été rapportée dans l’est du Canada. Les objectifs de la
présente étude étaient de déterminer la prévalence d’herpès virus félin-1
(FHV-1), du calicivirus félin (FCV), de Chlamydia felis et de Bordetella
bronchiseptica dans une population de chats de refuge de l’Île-du-Prince-Édouard,
Canada avec des signes cliniques reliés au URTD; de comparer la prévalence de
FHV-1 et FCV telle que détecter par réaction d’amplification en chaîne par la
polymérase (PCR) et l’isolement viral (VI) dans ces populations; et finalement,
déterminer si des facteurs, tels que les co-infections, la période de l’année, le
statut concomitant positif pour le virus de la leucémie féline (FeLV) ou le virus
de l’immunodéficience féline (FIV) ou les signes cliniques étaient associés avec 
la prévalence d’un agent pathogène en particulier. Des écouvillons de la
conjonctive, de la muqueuse nasale et de l’oropharynx furent obtenus de 82 chats 
avec des signes cliniques compatibles avec URTD. Les échantillons étaient
regroupés dans un milieu de transport et la PCR utilisée pour détecter FHV-1, FCV
et C. felis et l’isolement viral fut également utilisé pour détecter FHV-1 et
FCV. Un écouvillon séparé fut soumis pour culture bactérienne aérobie afin de
détecter B. bronchiseptica. Le FHV-1 était le plus prévalent dans cette
population, suivi par C. felis, B. bronchiseptica et FCV. Des quatre chats qui
étaient positifs pour B. bronchiseptica, trois étaient positifs également pour
FHV-1. Tous les isolats de B. bronchiseptica obtenus étaient résistants au
céfovecin. La prévalence de FHV-1 était à son plus bas en automne (P < 0,001 pour
les saisons) et était associée positivement avec la présence d’écoulement nasal
(P = 0,018) et de la toux (P = 0,043).(Traduit par Docteur Serge Messier).
Copyright and/or publishing rights held by the Canadian Veterinary Medical
Association.


PMCID: PMC7301681 [Available on 2021-01-01]
PMID: 32801452 

