
1. Proteomics. 2020 Aug 21:e2000117. doi: 10.1002/pmic.202000117. [Epub ahead of
print]

Comparative Proteomic Analysis Reveals Complex Responses to Bordetella
bronchiseptica Infections in the Spleen of Rabbits.

Xiao C(1), Huang Y(1), Wei Q(1), Liu Y(1), Ji Q(1), Li K(1), Bao G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science, Zhejiang Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, Shiqiao Road 145#, Hangzhou, 310021, China.

Bordetella bronchiseptica (B. bronchiseptica) causes a respiratory disease in
rabbits. To determine the proteins of B. bronchiseptica in rabbits related to the
disease, differentially accumulated proteins in B. bronchiseptica-infected cells 
are identified by comparative proteomic analysis. Comparative proteomic analysis 
detects 5814 proteins and quantifies 4854 of these. Fifty eight upregulated and
38 downregulated proteins are identified in spleen tissue after B. bronchiseptica
infection of rabbits (both p < 0.05). The significantly enriched Kyoto
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways are ribosome, biosynthesis of
amino acids, biosynthesis of amino acids, protein export, and carbon metabolism
etc. (all p < 0.01). Significantly enriched KEGG pathways include 'ocu03010
ribosome' (a); 'ocu00260 glycine, serine threonine metabolism'. Analyses of
control and infected spleen cells detect responses to B. bronchiseptica
infection. Many differentially affected proteins are evident, and reflect
different biological changes and diverse subcellular localizations between
control and infected spleen cells. Infection markedly alters the expressions of
proteins linked to the serine protease system, with the 'phagosome,'
'biosynthesis of amino acids,' 'glycine, serine threonine metabolism,'
'intestinal immune network for IgA production', and 'amino sugar and nucleotide
sugar metabolism' associated with B. bronchiseptica infection. The result will
inform studies of responses to B. bronchiseptica infections in rabbits.

Â© 2020 Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/pmic.202000117 
PMID: 32820866 

