
1. Front Plant Sci. 2020 May 27;11:662. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2020.00662. eCollection
2020.

Structure, Function, Regulation and Phylogenetic Relationship of ZIP Family
Transporters of Plants.

Ajeesh Krishna TP(1), Maharajan T(1), Victor Roch G(1), Ignacimuthu S(2), Antony 
Ceasar S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Plant Biotechnology, Entomology Research Institute, Loyola
College, University of Madras, Chennai, India.
(2)Xavier Research Foundation, St. Xavier's College, Palayamkottai, India.

Zinc (Zn) is an essential micronutrient for plants and humans. Nearly 50% of the 
agriculture soils of world are Zn-deficient. The low availability of Zn reduces
the yield and quality of the crops. The zinc-regulated, iron-regulated
transporter-like proteins (ZIP) family and iron-regulated transporters (IRTs) are
involved in cellular uptake of Zn, its intracellular trafficking and
detoxification in plants. In addition to Zn, ZIP family transporters also
transport other divalent metal cations (such as Cd2+, Fe2+, and Cu2+). ZIP
transporters play a crucial role in biofortification of grains with Zn. Only a
very limited information is available on structural features and mechanism of Zn 
transport of plant ZIP family transporters. In this article, we present a
detailed account on structure, function, regulations and phylogenetic
relationships of plant ZIP transporters. We give an insight to structure of plant
ZIPs through homology modeling and multiple sequence alignment with Bordetella
bronchiseptica ZIP (BbZIP) protein whose crystal structure has been solved
recently. We also provide details on ZIP transporter genes identified and
characterized in rice and other plants till date. Functional characterization of 
plant ZIP transporters will help for the better crop yield and human health in
future.

Copyright Â© 2020 Ajeesh Krishna, Maharajan, Victor Roch, Ignacimuthu and Antony
Ceasar.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2020.00662 
PMCID: PMC7267038
PMID: 32536933 

