
1. Vet Immunol Immunopathol. 2020 Aug 29;229:110114. doi:
10.1016/j.vetimm.2020.110114. [Epub ahead of print]

Prospecting potential links between PRRSV infection susceptibility of alveolar
macrophages and other respiratory infectious agents present in conventionally
reared pigs.

Museau L(1), Hervet C(1), Saade G(1), Menard D(1), Belloc C(1), Meurens F(1),
Bertho N(2).

Author information: 
(1)BIOEPAR, INRAE, ONIRIS, Nantes, France.
(2)BIOEPAR, INRAE, ONIRIS, Nantes, France. Electronic address:
nicolas.bertho@inrae.fr.

Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome virus (PRRSV) is one of the main
component of the porcine respiratory disease complex (PRDC), which strongly
impact the pig production. Although PRRSV is often considered as a primary
infection that eases subsequent respiratory coinfections, the possibility that
other PRDC components may facilitate PRRSV infection has been largely overlooked.
The main cellular targets of PRRSV are respiratory macrophages among them
alveolar macrophages (AM) and pulmonary intravascular macrophages (PIM). AM,
contrarily to PIM, are directly exposed to the external respiratory environment, 
among them co-infectious agents. In order to explore the possibility of a
co-infections impact on the capacity of respiratory macrophages to replicate
PRRSV, we proceed to in vitro infection of AM and PIM sampled from animals
presenting different sanitary status, and tested the presence in the respiratory 
tract of these animals of the most common porcine respiratory pathogens (PCV2,
Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae, Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae, Mycoplasma hyorhinis, 
Mycoplasma floculare, Pasteurella multocida, Bordetella bronchiseptica,
Streptoccocus suis). In this exploratory study with a limited number of animals, 
no statistic differences were observed between AM and PIM susceptibility to in
vitro PRRSV infection, nor between AM coming from animals presenting very
contrasting respiratory coinfection loads.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetimm.2020.110114 
PMID: 32905850 

