
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Jul 11;9(7). pii: E402. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9070402.

Antimicrobial Susceptibility Pattern of Porcine Respiratory Bacteria in Spain.

Vilaró A(1), Novell E(1), Enrique-Tarancón V(1), Balielles J(1), Vilalta C(2),
Martinez S(3), Fraile Sauce LJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Grup de Sanejament Porcí, 25192 Lleida, Spain.
(2)Freelance researcher, Arbeca, 25192 Lleida, Spain.
(3)Departamento de Sanidad Animal, Universidad de León, 24006 León, Spain.
(4)Departament de Ciència Animal, Escola Tècnica Superior d'Enginyeria Agrària,
University of Lleida-Agrotecnio, 25198 Lleida, Spain.

The monitoring of antimicrobial susceptibility of pig pathogens is critical to
optimize antimicrobial treatments and prevent development of resistance with a
one-health approach. The aim of this study was to investigate the antimicrobial
susceptibility patterns of swine respiratory pathogens in Spain from 2017 to
2019. Bacterial isolation and identification were carried out following
standardized methods from samples coming from sacrificed or recently deceased
pigs with acute clinical signs compatible with respiratory tract infections.
Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) values were determined using the broth
microdilution method containing a total of 10 and 7-8
antimicrobials/concentrations respectively, in accordance with the
recommendations presented by the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute
(CLSI). The obtained antimicrobial susceptibility varies between pig respiratory 
pathogens. Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae (APP) and Pasteurella multocida (PM)
were highly susceptible (≥90%) to ceftiofur, florfenicol and macrolides
(tilmicosin, tildipirosin and tulathromycin). However, the antimicrobial
susceptibility was intermediate (>60% but <90%) for amoxicillin and enrofloxacin 
in the case of APP and sulfamethoxazole/trimethropim and tiamulin in the case of 
PM. Both bacteria showed low (<60%) antimicrobial susceptibility to doxycycline. 
Finally, Bordetella bronchiseptica was highly susceptible only to tildipirosin
and tulathromycin (100%) and its susceptibility for florfenicol was close to 50% 
and <30% for the rest of the antimicrobial families tested. These results
emphasize the need of determining antimicrobial susceptibility in pig respiratory
cases in order to optimize the antimicrobial treatment in a case-by-case
scenario.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9070402 
PMCID: PMC7400251
PMID: 32664493 

