
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Aug 20. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004379. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Brevibacterium rongguiense sp. nov., isolated from freshwater sediment.

Deng T(1)(2)(3)(4), Lu H(3)(1), Qian Y(3)(1), Chen X(3)(1), Yang X(3)(1), Guo
J(4)(3)(1), Sun G(3)(1), Xu M(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Microbial Culture Collection and
Application, Guangdong Institute of Microbiology, Guangdong Academy of Sciences, 
Guangzhou 510070, PR China.
(2)South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650,
PR China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Applied Microbiology Southern China, Guangzhou 510070,
PR China.
(4)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, PR China.

A Gram stain-positive, non-spore-forming, non-motile and rod-shaped actinomycete,
strain 5221T, was isolated from the sediment of a river collected at Ronggui in
the Pearl River Delta, PR China. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene
sequences revealed that the strain formed a distinct lineage within the genus
Brevibacterium and had the highest sequence similarity to Brevibacterium
pityocampae Tp12T (96.7 %), followed by Brevibacterium daeguense 2C6-41T
(96.5 %), Brevibacterium samyangense SST-8T (96.0 %) and Brevibacterium
ravenspurgense 20T (95.9 %). The results of chemotaxonomic analyses, including
detecting anteiso-C15 : 0, anteiso-C17 : 0, and C16 : 0 as the major cellular
fatty acids, diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol and three
phosphoglycolipids as the polar lipids, MK-8(H2) as the major menaquinone, and a 
DNA G+C content of 72.4 mol%, supported that strain 5221T is a member of the
genus Brevibacterium. Furthermore, low sequence similarities of 16S rRNA gene
sequences, differences in fatty acid compositions and differential physiological 
characteristics such as enzyme activity and carbon sources utilization ability
distinguished the isolate from its close relatives. Therefore, strain 5221T
represents a novel species of the genus Brevibacterium, for which the name
Brevibacterium rongguiense sp. nov. is proposed, with the type strain 5221T
(=GDMCC 1.1766T=KACC 21700T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004379 
PMID: 32816658 

