
1. J Agric Food Chem. 2019 Nov 13;67(45):12452-12460. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.9b04113.
Epub 2019 Nov 1.

Discovery of a Novel Antimicrobial Lipopeptide, Brevibacillin V, from
Brevibacillus laterosporus fmb70 and Its Application on the Preservation of Skim 
Milk.

Wu Y(1), Zhou L(1), Lu F(1), Bie X(1), Zhao H(1), Zhang C(1), Lu Z(1), Lu Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Food Science and Technology , Nanjing Agricultural University ,
Nanjing , Jiangsu Province 210095 , China.
(2)College of Food Science and Engineering , Nanjing University of Finance and
Economics , Nanjing , Jiangsu Province 210023 , China.

Increasing cases of infections by foodborne pathogenic bacteria resulted in a
great demand to find safe and novel antimicrobial compounds that can be used in
the food industry. The isolation and application of antimicrobial peptides
including lipopeptides has been increasing tremendously in the past years. In
this study, a new bacterial strain called Brevibacillus laterosporus fmb70
(fmb70) was isolated and exhibited strong antimicrobial activities against
Gram-positive, Gram-negative bacteria, and fungi. Two major antimicrobial
components produced by fmb70 were respectively identified as lipopeptide:
brevibacillin V (MW: 1570.12 Da) and brevibacillin (MW: 1583.75 Da), of which
brevibacillin V was a new compound. Both of them consisted of 13 amino acids and 
C6 fatty acyl (FA) chain. Brevibacillin V and brevibacillin showed significant
antimicrobial activities against most foodborne pathogenic bacteria and
phytopathogenic fungi. They stayed activity at 100 Â°C and remained 50% of their
antimicrobial activities at pH 3 for 22 h. Hemolytic activities of them were
lower than 8%. They effectively eliminated the S. aureus GIM 1.142 and L.
monocytogenes ATCC 21633 in skim milk. In conclusion, the Brevibacillus
laterosporus fmb70 and its major antimicrobial components has remarkable
potentials in the food industry.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.9b04113 
PMID: 31674183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

