
1. Braz J Biol. 2020 Mar 9. pii: S1519-69842020005004203. doi:
10.1590/1519-6984.222279. [Epub ahead of print]

Biological control in the germination of seeds from two species native of the
Cerrado region.

Oliveira JC(1), Sales JF(1), Rubio-Neto A(2), Silva CF(3), Soares MA(4), Silva
FG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Sementes, Instituto Federal Goiano - IF Goiano, Campus Rio
Verde, Av. Sul Goiana, Km 01, Zona Rural, CEP 75900-000, Rio Verde, GO, Brasil.
(2)Laboratório de Cultura de Tecidos Vegetal, Instituto Federal Goiano - IF
Goiano, Campus Rio Verde, Av. Sul Goiana, Km 01, Zona Rural, CEP 75900-000, Rio
Verde, GO, Brasil.
(3)Laboratório de Microbiologia Agrícola, Instituto Federal Goiano - IF Goiano,
Campus Rio Verde, Av. Sul Goiana, Km 01, Zona Rural, CEP 75900-000, Rio Verde,
GO, Brasil.
(4)Instituto de Biociências, Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso - UFMT, Av.
Fernando Corrêa da Costa, 2367, Boa Esperança, CEP 78060-900, Cuiabá, MT, Brasil.

Microorganisms have been efficiently used for the biological control of
phytopathogens through the production of antimicrobial substances. However, the
objectives of this work were: to study the germination of Butia purpurascens
Glassman and Butia archeri Glassman seeds in different substrates, to select and 
identify the endophytic and rhizospheric bacterial isolates of B. purpurascens
and B. archeri, and to perform antibiosis tests based on the isolated
microorganisms of these tree species. No difference was found between the
cultivation substrates for the percentages of germination, hard seeds, and fungal
contamination in the B. purpurascens seeds. The Bacillus subtilis isolated showed
the best capacity for suppressing the growth of the two deteriorative fungi
tested in B. purpurascens seeds. No difference was found for inhibition of the
growth of Aspergillus niger fungus (deteriorative fungus of B. archeri seeds)
between the microorganisms with Bacillus sp. and Brevibacillus brevis compared to
the control. In the microbiolization of B. purpurascens and B. archeri seeds
performed with microbiological solutions produced from the endophytic and
rhizospheric strains of Bacillus sp., no differences were observed in the
percentages of germination and contamination by fungi. For B. archeri seeds,
there was contamination by fungi and bacteria after one day of cultivation,
primarily in the regions with lesions caused by the extraction and scarification 
process.

DOI: 10.1590/1519-6984.222279 
PMID: 32159616 

