
1. Genomics. 2020 Jan;112(1):1042-1053. doi: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2019.06.020. Epub 2019 
Jun 19.

Phylogenetic determinants of toxin gene distribution in genomes of Brevibacillus 
laterosporus.

Glare TR(1), Durrant A(2), Berry C(3), Palma L(4), Ormskirk MM(2), Cox MP(5).

Author information: 
(1)Bio-Protection Research Centre, PO Box 85084, Lincoln University, Lincoln, New
Zealand. Electronic address: travis.glare@lincoln.ac.nz.
(2)Bio-Protection Research Centre, PO Box 85084, Lincoln University, Lincoln, New
Zealand.
(3)Cardiff School of Biosciences, Cardiff University, Museum Avenue, Cardiff CF10
3AX, UK.
(4)Universidad Nacional de Villa María, Instituto A.P. de Ciencias Básicas y
Aplicadas, Av. Arturo Jauretche 1555, Villa María 5900, Córdoba, Argentina.
(5)Statistics and Bioinformatics Group, Institute of Fundamental Sciences, Massey
University, Palmerston North 4410, New Zealand.

Brevibacillus laterosporus is a globally ubiquitous, spore forming bacterium,
strains of which have shown toxic activity against invertebrates and microbes and
several have been patented due to their commercial potential. Relatively little
is known about this bacterium. Here, we examined the genomes of six published and
five newly determined genomes of B. laterosporus, with an emphasis on the
relationships between known and putative toxin encoding genes, as well as the
phylogenetic relationships between strains. Phylogenetically, strain
relationships are similar using average nucleotide identity (ANI) values and
multi-gene approaches, although PacBio sequencing revealed multiple copies of the
16S rDNA gene which lessened utility at the strain level. Based on ANI values,
the New Zealand isolates were distant from other isolates and may represent a new
species. While all of the genomes examined shared some putative toxicity or
virulence related proteins, many specific genes were only present in a subset of 
strains.

Copyright © 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2019.06.020 
PMCID: PMC6978878
PMID: 31226484  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

