
1. Arch Microbiol. 2019 Dec;201(10):1369-1383. doi: 10.1007/s00203-019-01705-0. Epub
2019 Jul 22.

Toluene degradation via a unique metabolic route in indigenous bacterial species.

Muccee F(1), Ejaz S(2), Riaz N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, The Islamia University of
Bahawalpur, Bahawalpur, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, The Islamia University of
Bahawalpur, Bahawalpur, Pakistan. saminaejazsyed@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Chemistry, The Islamia University of Bahawalpur, Bahawalpur,
Pakistan.

Tanneries are the primary source of toluene pollution in the environment and
toluene due to its hazardous effects has been categorized as persistent organic
pollutant. Present study was initiated to trace out metabolic fingerprints of
three toluene-degrading bacteria isolated from tannery effluents of Southern
Punjab. Using selective enrichment and serial dilution methods followed by
biochemical, molecular and antibiotic resistance analysis, isolated bacteria were
subjected to metabolomics analysis. GC-MS/LC-MS analysis of bacterial metabolites
helped to identify toluene transformation products and underlying pathways. Three
toluene-metabolizing bacteria identified as Bacillus paralicheniformis strain
KJ-16 (IUBT4 and IUBT24) and Brevibacillus agri strain NBRC 15538 (IUBT19) were
found tolerant to toluene and capable of degrading toluene. Toluene-degrading
potential of these isolates was detected to be IUBT4 (10.35 ± 0.084 mg/h), IUBT19
(14.07 ± 3.14 mg/h) and IUBT24 (11.1 ± 0.282 mg/h). Results of GC-MS analysis
revealed that biotransformation of toluene is accomplished not only through known
metabolic routes such as toluene 3-monooxygenase (T3MO), toluene 2-monooxygenase 
(T2MO), toluene 4-monooxygenase (T4MO), toluene methyl monooxygenase (TOL),
toluene dioxygenase (Tod), meta- and ortho-ring fission pathways. But
additionally, confirmed existence of a unique metabolic pathway that involved
conversion of toluene into intermediates such as cyclohexene, cyclohexane,
cyclohexanone and cyclohexanol. LC-MS analysis indicated the presence of fatty
acid amides, stigmine, emmotin A and 2, 2-dinitropropanol in supernatants of
bacterial cultures. As the isolated bacteria transformed toluene into relatively 
less toxic molecules and thus can be preferably exploited for the eco-friendly
remediation of toluene.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-019-01705-0 
PMID: 31332474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

