
1. Biochimie. 2020 Sep 12;179:101-112. doi: 10.1016/j.biochi.2020.09.004. [Epub
ahead of print]

Following tyrothricin peptide production by Brevibacillus parabrevis with
electrospray mass spectrometry.

Vosloo JA(1), Rautenbach M(2).

Author information: 
(1)BIOPEP(TM) Peptide Group, Department of Biochemistry, Stellenbosch University,
Private Bag X1, Matieland, 7600, South Africa. Electronic address:
arnie@sun.ac.za.
(2)BIOPEP(TM) Peptide Group, Department of Biochemistry, Stellenbosch University,
Private Bag X1, Matieland, 7600, South Africa. Electronic address: mra@sun.ac.za.

The tyrocidines and analogues are cationic cyclodecapeptides [cyclo
(D-Phe1-L-Pro2-L-(Phe3/Trp3)-D-(Phe4/Trp4)-L-Asn5-L-Gln6-L-(Tyr7/Phe7/Trp7)-L-Val
8-L-(Orn9/Lys9)-L-Leu10], produced together with the neutral linear
pentadecapeptide gramicidins, in the antibiotic tyrothricin complex by
Brevibacillus parabrevis. Despite discovery 80 years ago, it was still uncertain 
whether these peptides are secreted or sequestered intracellularly. We resolved
this by utilising high resolution electrospray mass spectrometry to confirm the
predominantly intracellular sequestration of the peptides in the tyrothricin
complex. A "peptidomics" approach allowed us to map the intracellular production 
of 16 cyclodecapeptides and 6 gramicidins over 16 days of culturing. Gramicidin
production remained relatively constant, with Val-gramicidin A the predominant
analogue produced throughout the 16 day fermentation period. The tyrothricin
cyclodecapeptides have four variable positions and there was a culturing time
related shift from the Phe-rich A analogues, containing a L-Phe3-D-Phe4 aromatic 
dipeptide unit, to the Trp-rich C analogues with L-Trp3-D-Trp4. For the other
variable aromatic residue position, Tyr7 was preferentially incorporated above
Trp7, with a minor incorporation of Phe7 over the whole culturing period. For the
variable basic amino acid residue, there was time-sensitive shift from Orn9 to
Lys9 incorporation. Modulation of the cyclodecapeptide profile over time does not
correlate with the reported non-ribosomal peptide synthetase affinity,
specifically for Trp in the variable aromatic residue positions, indicating
additional supply-demand control in the cyclodecapeptides production by
B. parabrevis. These novel observations are not only of importance for production
and purification of selected peptide analogues from the tyrothricin complex, but 
also for insight into microbial control of non-ribosomal peptide production that 
extends beyond the peptide synthetase machinery.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2020.09.004 
PMID: 32926968 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare they have no conflict of interest in the publication of this research.

