
1. Braz J Microbiol. 2020 Mar;51(1):135-143. doi: 10.1007/s42770-020-00228-x. Epub
2020 Jan 18.

Isolation of a novel thermophilic bacterium capable of producing high-yield
bioemulsifier and its kinetic modelling aspects along with proposed metabolic
pathway.

Dhagat S(1), Jujjavarapu SE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Technology Raipur, Raipur, 
India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Technology Raipur, Raipur, 
India. satyaeswarij.bt@nitrr.ac.in.

Bioemulsifiers form stable emulsions and lower surface tension between two phases
with potent anti-microbial activities. Some applications of bioemulsifier are
performed at high temperatures and hence production of bioemulsifiers that are
stable at high temperature is required. This study aimed at the production of
bioemulsifier by an unexplored bacterial strain isolated from a local hot spring.
The parameters tested for bioemulsifier production (emulsification ability,
surface tension measurement and product formation) showed that 24 h is the
optimal time for the production of bioemulsifier by strain S3 with yield of
1.4 g/l. The logistic growth curve of bacterial strain was analysed and kinetic
constants for substrate utilisation and product formation were determined by
Luedeking-Piret kinetic models. The bacterial strain S3 was Gram-positive and was
classified as a strain of Brevibacillus borstelensis. The specific growth rate of
the organism was 0.0096 h-1 with the kinetic rate constants as 11.246 (γ) and
10.626 (δ) for Luedeking-Piret substrate and 3.8423 (α) and - 1.9075 (β) for
Luedeking-Piret product. Knowledge of these values will help in estimating the
substrate utilisation or bioemulsifier formed at any time point. These studies
will also help in understanding internal metabolic fluxes hence rigorous analysis
of metabolic pathway of bioemulsan is also performed in this study. Graphical
abstract.

DOI: 10.1007/s42770-020-00228-x 
PMCID: PMC7058741 [Available on 2021-01-18]
PMID: 31955394 

