
1. Toxicol Lett. 2020 Mar 15;321:138-145. doi: 10.1016/j.toxlet.2019.12.030. Epub
2019 Dec 28.

A catalytic bioscavenger with improved stability and reduced susceptibility to
oxidation for treatment of acute poisoning with neurotoxic organophosphorus
compounds.

Job L(1), Köhler A(2), Escher B(3), Worek F(4), Skerra A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Lehrstuhl für Biologische Chemie, Technische Universität München,
Emil-Erlenmeyer-Forum 5, 85354 Freising, Germany. Electronic address:
laura.job@tum.de.
(2)Lehrstuhl für Biologische Chemie, Technische Universität München,
Emil-Erlenmeyer-Forum 5, 85354 Freising, Germany; Bundeswehr Institut für
Pharmakologie und Toxikologie, Neuherbergstr. 11, 80937 München, Germany.
Electronic address: Anja1Koehler@bundeswehr.org.
(3)Lehrstuhl für Biologische Chemie, Technische Universität München,
Emil-Erlenmeyer-Forum 5, 85354 Freising, Germany. Electronic address:
b.escher@tum.de.
(4)Bundeswehr Institut für Pharmakologie und Toxikologie, Neuherbergstr. 11,
80937 München, Germany. Electronic address: franzworek@bundeswehr.org.
(5)Lehrstuhl für Biologische Chemie, Technische Universität München,
Emil-Erlenmeyer-Forum 5, 85354 Freising, Germany. Electronic address:
skerra@tum.de.

Organophosphorus (OP)1 nerve agents pose a severe toxicological threat, both
after dissemination in military conflicts and by terrorists. Hydrolytic enzymes, 
which may be administered into the blood stream of victims by injection and can
decompose the circulating nerve agent into non-toxic metabolites in vivo, could
offer a treatment. Indeed, for the phosphotriesterase found in the bacterium
Brevundimonas diminuta (BdPTE),2 engineered versions with improved catalytic
efficiencies have been described; yet, their biochemical stabilities are
insufficient for therapeutic use. Here, we describe the application of rational
protein design to develop novel mutants of BdPTE that are less susceptible to
oxidative damage. In particular, the replacement of two unpaired cysteine
residues by more inert amino acids led to higher stability while maintaining high
catalytic activity towards a broad spectrum of substrates, including OP
pesticides and V-type nerve agents. The mutant BdPTE enzymes were produced in
Escherichia coli, purified to homogeneity, and their biochemical and
enzymological properties were assessed. Several candidates both revealed enhanced
thermal stability and were less susceptible to oxidative stress, as demonstrated 
by mass spectrometry. These mutants of BdPTE may show promise for the treatment
of acute intoxications by nerve agents as well as OP pesticides.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxlet.2019.12.030 
PMID: 31891759  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

