
1. Environ Pollut. 2020 Nov;266(Pt 3):115202. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.115202.
Epub 2020 Aug 4.

Synergistic effects of compost, cow bile and bacterial culture on bioremediation 
of hydrocarbon-contaminated drill mud waste.

Osei-Twumasi D(1), Fei-Baffoe B(2), Anning AK(2), Danquah KO(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Theoretical and Applied Biology, Faculty of Biosciences, College
of Science, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Kumasi, Ghana.
Electronic address: danieltwumasi375@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Theoretical and Applied Biology, Faculty of Biosciences, College
of Science, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Kumasi, Ghana.
(3)Department of Medical Diagnostics, Faculty of Allied Health Sciences, Kwame
Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Kumasi, Ghana.

Bioremediation has gained global prominence as an effective method for treating
hydrocarbon-contaminated drill mud waste (HCDW). However, the problem of low
nutrient content, bioavailability and microbial presence remain largely
unresolved. In this study, the synergistic effects of compost, cow bile and
bacterial culture on the degradation rate of HCDW was investigated. A homogenized
HCDW sample (80 kg) obtained from 25 different drill mud tanks was divided into
20 portions (4 kg each) and each adjusted to 1.4% nitrogen content + 20 ml cow
bile (i.e., basic treatment). Pure cultures of Brevibacterium casei (Bc) and
Bacillus zhangzhouensi (Bz) and their mixture (BcBz) were subsequently added to
12 of the amended HCDW (basic) to undergo a 6-week incubation. A portion of the
unamended HCDW (2 kg) was used as control. Initial pH, electrical conductivity
and surface tension values of the HCDW were 8.83, 2.34 mS/cm and 36.5 mN/m,
respectively. Corresponding values for total petroleum hydrocarbon (TPH), total
nitrogen and total plate count bacteria were 165 g/kg, 0.04% and
4.4 × 102 cfu/ml. The treatments led to a substantial reduction in TPH (p < 0.05)
while the control had no significant effect (p > 0.05). TPH reduction after the
experimental period occurred in the order: basic + BcBz (99.7%) > basic + Bz
(99.5%) > basic + Bc (99.2%) > basic (95.2%) > control (0.06%). Multiple
regression analysis revealed significant effect of total plate count, pH, CN
ratio and electrical conductivity (R2 = 0.87, p = 0.05) on the degradation of TPH
in the HCDW. The study demonstrates strong interactive effects of compost, cow
bile and bacteria culture on the remediation of HCDW, which can be applied to
boost the efficiency of the bioremediation technique.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.115202 
PMID: 32823065  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

