
1. Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek. 2020 Jul;113(7):973-987. doi:
10.1007/s10482-020-01404-7. Epub 2020 Apr 11.

Brevibacillus fortis NRS-1210 produces edeines that inhibit the in vitro growth
of conidia and chlamydospores of the onion pathogen Fusarium oxysporum f. sp.
cepae.

Johnson ET(1), Bowman MJ(2), Dunlap CA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Crop Bioprotection Research Unit, USDA ARS, 1815 N. University St., Peoria,
IL, 61604, USA. eric.johnson2@usda.gov.
(2)Bioenergy Research Unit, USDA ARS, 1815 N. University St., Peoria, IL, 61604, 
USA.
(3)Crop Bioprotection Research Unit, USDA ARS, 1815 N. University St., Peoria,
IL, 61604, USA.

Onions can be damaged by Fusarium basal rot caused by the soilborne fungus
Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cepae (FOC). Control of this pathogen is challenging
since there is limited genetic resistance in onion. The identification of
molecules that inhibit this pathogen is needed. Antagonism screening showed
Brevibacillus fortis NRS-1210 secreted antifungal compounds into growth medium.
The spent growth medium, diluted 1:1, inhibited growth of FOC conidia after seven
hours and killed 67-91% of conidia after 11 h. The spent medium also inhibited
growth of propagules from F. graminearum, F. proliferatum, F. verticillioides and
Galactomyces citri-aurantii. Full strength spent growth medium did not
effectively kill FOC conidia and chlamydospores inoculated into a sand cornmeal
mixture. In silico analysis of the B. fortis NRS-1210 genome indicated the
biosynthetic clusters of several antibiotics. Fractionation of spent medium
followed by reverse-phase liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry
analysis found that fractions with the most antifungal activity contained a
combination of edeines A, B and F and no other recognized antibiotics. 1H NMR
signals of the active fraction corresponded to edeine, a pentapeptide with broad 
spectrum antimicrobial activity which blocks translation in both prokaryotes and 
eukaryotes. Comparative genomics of Brevibacillus genomes shows edeine producers 
form a clade which consists of: Brevibacillus brevis, Brevibacillus formosus,
'Brevibacillus antibioticus', Brevibacillus schisleri, Brevibacillus fortis, and 
Brevibacillus porteri. This observation suggests edeine played an important role 
in the evolution and speciation of the Brevibacillus genus.

DOI: 10.1007/s10482-020-01404-7 
PMID: 32279200 

