
1. J Invertebr Pathol. 2020 Jan;169:107281. doi: 10.1016/j.jip.2019.107281. Epub
2019 Nov 21.

Safety evaluation of the entomopathogenic bacterium Brevibacillus laterosporus
for the green lacewing Chrysoperla agilis (Neuroptera: Chrysopidae).

Ruiu L(1), Lazzeri AM(2), Nuvoli MT(2), Floris I(2), Satta A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Agraria, University of Sassari, Viale Italia 39, 07100
Sassari, Italy. Electronic address: lucaruiu@uniss.it.
(2)Dipartimento di Agraria, University of Sassari, Viale Italia 39, 07100
Sassari, Italy.

The safety of the entomopathogenic bacterium Brevibacillus laterosporus for the
natural insect predator Chrysoperla agilis was evaluated in this study. For this 
purpose, laboratory bioassays were conducted exposing different larval instars
and adults of the chrysopid to bacterial spore preparations, in order to evaluate
the possible effects on survival, longevity, immature development, and adult
reproductive performance. The sub-lethal effects were investigated by feeding the
bacterium directly to adults and larvae of C. agilis or to mealworm beetles
(Tenebrio molitor) used as hosts for chrysopids (tritrophic interaction). Direct 
feeding of B. laterosporus spores to different lacewing larvae instars and to
adults did not cause mean mortality levels significantly different from untreated
control, and slight though not significant effects of treatments were generally
observed on insect longevity, development, fecundity and egg hatching. In the
case of lacewing larvae feeding on treated mealworm beetles, adult emergence
percentage was reduced approximately 12%, in comparison with untreated control.
Based on these results, the use of B. laterosporus for pest management in the
agroecosystem, appears to be compatible with chrysopids.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jip.2019.107281 
PMID: 31759950 

