
1. J Appl Microbiol. 2019 Dec;127(6):1665-1676. doi: 10.1111/jam.14430. Epub 2019
Sep 10.

Modelling the variable incorporation of aromatic amino acids in the tyrocidines
and analogous cyclodecapeptides.

Vosloo JA(1), Snoep JL(1)(2)(3), Rautenbach M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, Stellenbosch University,
Stellenbosch, South Africa.
(2)Molecular Cell Physiology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, HV Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.
(3)MIB, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.

AIMS: A mathematical model of the nonribosomal synthesis of tyrocidines and
analogues by Brevibacillus parabrevis was constructed using a competitive binding
mechanism (CBM) for the incorporation of the three variable aromatic amino acid
(Aaa) residues in their sequence. These antimicrobial peptides have a conserved
structure (D-Phe1 -Pro2 -Aaa3 -D-Aaa4 -Asn5 -Gln6 -Aaa7 -Val8 -Orn9 -Leu10 ),
apart from the Aaa in positions 3, 4 and 7 containing either Phe, Trp or Tyr.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Ultra-performance liquid chromatography linked mass
spectrometry was used to profile peptides from extracts of cultures grown in
media with various Phe : Trp ratios. The CBM model describes the production of
peptides as a function of growth medium Aaa concentration. The model accounts for
variable Aaa incorporation by simultaneously considering the influence of maximal
incorporation rate and cooperativity, despite similar KM' s of synthetase
modules.
CONCLUSIONS: Our CBM model can be utilized to predict the Aaa composition of
produced peptides from the concentration of Aaas in the growth medium.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Subtly exploiting the inherent promiscuity 
of the nontemplate coded peptide synthesis allows for external control of peptide
identity, without using genetic manipulation. Such versatility is exploitable in 
the production of targeted peptide complexes and rare peptides where production
processes are reliant on nonribosomal synthesis.

© 2019 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/jam.14430 
PMID: 31461193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

