
1. Biology (Basel). 2020 Jul 21;9(7). pii: E179. doi: 10.3390/biology9070179.

Biocontrol Potential of Purified Elicitor Protein PeBL1 Extracted from
Brevibacillus laterosporus Strain A60 and Its Capacity in the Induction of
Defense Process against Cucumber Aphid (Myzus persicae) in Cucumber (Cucumis
sativus).

Javed K(1), Javed H(2), Qiu D(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, Institute
of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, No. 12
Zhong-Guan-Cun South Street, Beijing 100081, China.
(2)Department of Entomology, Pir Mehr Ali Shah Arid Agriculture University,
Rawalpindi 46000, Pakistan.

The Cucumber aphid (Myzus persicae), a destructive cucumber aphid usually managed
by chemical pesticides, is responsible for enormous annual agricultural losses. A
protein elicitor, PeBL1, was investigated in the present work for its ability to 
induce a defense response against M. persicae in cucumber. The rates of
population growth (Intrinsic rate of increase) of M. persicae (second and third
generations) decreased with PeBL1-treated cucumber seedlings as compared to
positive (water) and negative 70.58 μg mL-1 controls (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0). In
an assay on host selection, M. persicae had a preference for colonizing control
plants as compared to the PeBL1-treated cucumber seedlings. The nymphal
development time of the aphid was extended with the PeBL1-treated cucumber
seedlings. Likewise, fecundity was reduced, with less offspring produced in the
PeBL1-treated cucumber seedlings as compared to the positive (water) and negative
70.58 μg mL-1 controls (50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0). The cucumber leaves treated with
PeBL1 had a hazardous surface environment for M. persicae, caused by trichomes
and wax formation. Jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA), and ethylene (ET)
levels were significantly higher, exhibiting significant accumulation in the
PeBL1-treated cucumber seedlings. The following results showed that PeBL1
considerably altered the height of the cucumber plant and the surface structure
of the leaves to minimize M. persicae reproduction, and it prevented
colonization. Defensive processes also included the activation of pathways (JA,
SA, and ET). This study provides evidence of biocontrol for the use of PeBL1 in
cucumber defense against M. persicae.

DOI: 10.3390/biology9070179 
PMCID: PMC7408455
PMID: 32708244 

