
1. Biomedicines. 2020 Aug 28;8(9). pii: E315. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines8090315.

Antimicrobial Activities of Different Fractions from Mucus of the Garden Snail
Cornu aspersum.

Dolashki A(1), Velkova L(1), Daskalova E(2), Zheleva N(2), Topalova Y(2),
Atanasov V(1), Voelter W(3), Dolashka P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Organic Chemistry with Centre of Phytochemistry, Bulgarian
Academy of Sciences, Acad. G. Bonchev str., bl.9, 1113 Sofia, Bulgaria.
(2)Sofia University, St. Kliment Ohridski", Faculty of Biology, Department of
General and Applied Hydrobiology, 8 Dragan Tzankov Blvd., 1164 Sofia, Bulgaria.
(3)Interfacultary Institute of Biochemistry, University of Tübingen,
Hoppe-Seyler-Straße 4, D-72076 Tübingen, Germany.

Natural products have long played a major role in medicine and science. The
garden snail Cornu aspersum is a rich source of biologically active natural
substances that might be an important source for new drugs to treat human
disease. Based on our previous studies, nine fractions containing compounds with 
Mw <3 kDa; <10 kDa; <20 kDa; >20 kDa; >30 kDa>50 kDa and between 3 and 5 kDa; 5
and 10 kDa; and 10 and 30 kDa were purified from the mucus of C. aspersum and
analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/TOF). Seventeen novel peptides
with potential antibacterial activity were identified by de novo MS/MS sequencing
using tandem mass spectrometry. The different fractions were tested for
antibacterial activity against Gram─ (Pseudomonas aureofaciens and Escherichia
coli) and Gram+ (Brevibacillus laterosporus) bacterial strains as well the
anaerobic bacterium Clostridium perfringens. These results revealed that the
peptide fractions exhibit a predominant antibacterial activity against B.
laterosporus; the fraction with Mw 10-30 kDa against E. coli; another peptide
fraction <20 kDa against P. aureofaciens; and the protein fraction >20 kDa
against the bacterial strain C. perfringens. The discovery of new antimicrobial
peptides (AMPs) from natural sources is of great importance for public health due
to the AMPs' effective antimicrobial activities and low resistance rates.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines8090315 
PMID: 32872361 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to
publish the results.

