
1. J Colloid Interface Sci. 2020 Oct 15;578:698-709. doi:
10.1016/j.jcis.2020.06.058. Epub 2020 Jun 20.

Blade-like structure of graphene oxide sheets decorated with cuprous oxide and
silicon carbide nanocomposites as bactericidal materials.

Selim MS(1), Mo PJ(2), Hao Z(3), Fatthallah NA(4), Chen X(5).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Clean Chemistry Technology of Guangdong Regular Higher
Education Institutions, School of Chemical Engineering and Light Industry,
Guangdong University of Technology, Guangzhou 510006, PR China; Petroleum
Application Department, Egyptian Petroleum Research Institute, Nasr City 11727,
Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Key Laboratory of Clean Chemistry Technology of Guangdong Regular Higher
Education Institutions, School of Chemical Engineering and Light Industry,
Guangdong University of Technology, Guangzhou 510006, PR China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Clean Chemistry Technology of Guangdong Regular Higher
Education Institutions, School of Chemical Engineering and Light Industry,
Guangdong University of Technology, Guangzhou 510006, PR China. Electronic
address: haozf@gdut.edu.cn.
(4)Processes Development Department, Egyptian Petroleum Research Institute, Nasr 
City 11727, Cairo, Egypt.
(5)Key Laboratory of Clean Chemistry Technology of Guangdong Regular Higher
Education Institutions, School of Chemical Engineering and Light Industry,
Guangdong University of Technology, Guangzhou 510006, PR China. Electronic
address: chenxiang@gdut.edu.cn.

In the current work, graphene oxide nanosheets decorated with cuprous oxide
nanospheres (GO/Cu2O) and with silicon carbide nanowires (GO/SiC) were
synthesized and controlled for using as blade-like antibacterial agents.
Preparation of GO sheets with <2 nm thickness was performed through a modified
Hummers approach. Controlled Cu2O spheres with a mean size of 40 nm were prepared
through a wet-chemical approach. For comparative studies, a single step chemical 
deposition method was used to prepare GO/Cu2O and GO/SiC nanocomposites for using
as antibacterial active materials. The nanomaterials' biological behavior and
bacterial-resistance were assessed via selected Gram-negative and gram-positive
bacteria and yeast strains. GO/Cu2O nanocomposite exhibited higher antibacterial 
activity against different bacterial strains than GO/SiC composite. GO/Cu2O
exhibited average activity index, minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) values, 
and viable cell numbers of 1.523, 10.438 µg/mL, and 82.962% for Bacillus
subtilis, Brevibacillus brevis and Bacillus thuriginesis), 1.453, 32.00 µg/mL,
and 68.418% for Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Escherichia coli) and 68.608% for
Candida albicans, respectively. The antimicrobial efficiency of the blade-like
GO/Cu2O was elucidated by scanning electron microscopy through the complete
wrapping of the cell membranes and disrupting their shape morphology. GO
nanosheets could increase the Cu2O dispersion in the aqueous solution, prevent
their agglomeration, and stabilize its action in aqueous solution with high
microbial toxicity.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcis.2020.06.058 
PMID: 32570140 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

