
1. Protein J. 2020 Feb;39(1):46-53. doi: 10.1007/s10930-019-09874-z.

Expression, Folding, and Activation of Halophilic Alkaline Phosphatase in
Non-Halophilic Brevibacillus choshinensis.

Laksmi FA(1), Imamura H(2), Tsurumaru H(1)(2), Nakamura Y(1), Hanagata H(3), Arai
S(4), Tokunaga M(1)(2), Ishibashi M(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)The United Graduate School of Agricultural Sciences, Kagoshima University,
1-21-24 Korimoto, Kagoshima, 890-0065, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Agriculture, Kagoshima University, 1-21-24 Korimoto, Kagoshima,
890-0065, Japan.
(3)R & D Department, Higeta Shoyu Co., Ltd, 2-8 Chuo-cho, Choshi, Chiba,
288-8680, Japan.
(4)Institute for Quantum Life Science, National Institutes for Quantum and
Radiological Science and Technology, 2-4 Shirakata, Tokai, Ibaraki, 319-1106,
Japan.
(5)The United Graduate School of Agricultural Sciences, Kagoshima University,
1-21-24 Korimoto, Kagoshima, 890-0065, Japan. k6038120@kadai.jp.
(6)Faculty of Agriculture, Kagoshima University, 1-21-24 Korimoto, Kagoshima,
890-0065, Japan. k6038120@kadai.jp.

Halophilic enzymes contain a large number of acidic amino acids and marginal
large hydrophobic amino acids, which make them highly soluble even under strongly
hydrophobic conditions. This characteristic of halophilic enzymes provides
potential for their industrial application. However, halophilic enzymes easily
degrade when used for industrial applications compared with enzymes from other
extremophiles because of their instability in low-salt environments. We aimed to 
clarify the stabilization mechanism of halophilic enzymes. We previously
attempted to express halophilic alkaline phosphatase from Halomonas (HaALP) in
non-halophilic E. coli. However, the expressed HaALP showed little activity.
Therefore, we overexpressed HaALP in Gram-positive non-halophilic Brevibacillus
choshinensis in this study, which was successfully expressed and purified in its 
active form. HaALP was denatured in 6 M urea, refolded using various salts and
the non-ionic osmolyte trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO), and assessed by native
polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. HaALP refolded in 3 M NaCl or 3 M TMAO
containing Na+ ions. Hydrophobic interactions due to a high salt concentration or
TMAO enhanced the formation of the folding intermediate (the monomer precursor), 
and only Na+ ions activated the dimer form. This insight into the stabilization
mechanism of HaALP may lead to the development of industrial applications of
halophilic enzymes under low-salt conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10930-019-09874-z 
PMID: 31734848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

