
1. Braz J Microbiol. 2020 Jul 29. doi: 10.1007/s42770-020-00353-7. [Epub ahead of
print]

Cellular response of Brevibacterium casei #NIOSBA88 to arsenic and chromium-a
proteomic approach.

Shah S(1), Damare S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biological Oceanography Division, CSIR- National Institute of Oceanography,
Dona Paula, Goa, India.
(2)Biological Oceanography Division, CSIR- National Institute of Oceanography,
Dona Paula, Goa, India. samir@nio.org.

Cellular response against different heavy metal stress differs with the metal.
Arsenic and chromium are heavy metals and toxic to living systems. The
concentration of these metals in seawater is very low. However, due to their
solubility in nature, they actively enter cells via various transport mechanisms 
and cause damage to the cells. Brevibacterium casei #NIOSBA88, a marine-derived, 
gram-positive isolate was multi-metal tolerant. Proteomic analysis of this
isolate in response to arsenic and chromium resulted in the identification of
total 2549 proteins, out of which 880 proteins were found to be commonly
expressed at 750 mgL-1 arsenic and 100 mgL-1 chromium and in absence of both the 
metals. In contrast, 533, 212, and 270 proteins were found to be unique in the
absence of any metal, 750 mgL-1 of arsenic and 100 mgL-1 of chromium
respectively. Proteins such as antibiotic biosynthesis monooxygenase, ArsR family
transcriptional regulator, cytochrome C oxidase subunit II, and thioredoxin
reductase were exclusively expressed only in response to arsenic and chromium.
Other proteins like superoxide dismutase, lipid hydroperoxide reductase, and
thioredoxin-disulfide reductase were found to be upregulated in response to both 
the metals. Most of the proteins involved in the normal cell functioning were
found to be downregulated. Major metabolic functions affected include amino acid 
metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, translation, and energy metabolism. Peptide 
mass fingerprinting of Brevibacterium casei #NIOSBA88 exposed to arsenic and
chromium respectively revealed the deleterious effect of these metals on the
bacterium and its strategy to overcome the stress.

DOI: 10.1007/s42770-020-00353-7 
PMID: 32729030 

