
1. Front Plant Sci. 2020 Apr 2;11:344. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2020.00344. eCollection
2020.

High-Yield Production of the Major Birch Pollen Allergen Bet v 1 With Allergen
Immunogenicity in Nicotiana benthamiana.

Yamada Y(1), Kidoguchi M(2)(3), Yata A(1), Nakamura T(2), Yoshida H(1)(4), Kato
Y(3), Masuko H(5), Hizawa N(5), Fujieda S(3), Noguchi E(2), Miura K(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Japan.
(2)Department of Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Japan.
(3)Division of Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, Department of
Sensory and Locomotor Medicine, Faculty of Medical Science, University of Fukui, 
Fukui, Japan.
(4)Tsukuba-Plant Innovation Research Center, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba,
Japan.
(5)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan.

Type I allergy is an immunological disorder triggered by allergens and causes
significant health problems. The major allergen of birch pollen is Bet v 1, which
belongs to the pathogen-related protein 10 (PR-10) family. Here, we established a
rapid and robust method for the production of Bet v 1 in Nicotiana benthamiana
leaves, with binding activity to allergic patients' IgE. The Bet v 1 allergen was
expressed in N. benthamiana using a strong agroinfiltration-based transient
protein expression system, which consists of a deconstructed geminiviral vector
system with a double terminator. Five days post-infiltration, the allergen
concentration in N. benthamiana leaves was 1.2 mg/g of fresh mass, being this the
maximum yield of Bet v 1 in plants reported up to now. A part of plant-derived
Bet v 1 was glycosylated. Bet v 1 purified from N. benthamiana or Brevibacillus
brevis was used to carry out enzyme-linked immunoassays; both recombinant
allergens were found to have comparable binding properties to the IgE of allergic
patients. These results suggest that our plant expression system allows rapid and
robust production of the allergen, which keeps the immunogenicity.

Copyright Â© 2020 Yamada, Kidoguchi, Yata, Nakamura, Yoshida, Kato, Masuko,
Hizawa, Fujieda, Noguchi and Miura.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2020.00344 
PMCID: PMC7142267
PMID: 32300351 

