
1. Microb Cell Fact. 2020 Feb 28;19(1):52. doi: 10.1186/s12934-020-01315-2.

Relative contributions of non-essential Sec pathway components and cell
envelope-associated proteases to high-level enzyme secretion by Bacillus
subtilis.

Neef J(1), Bongiorni C(2), Schmidt B(2), Goosens VJ(1), van Dijl JM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Groningen, University
Medical Center Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, P.O. Box 30001, 9700 RB, Groningen, The
Netherlands.
(2)DuPont Industrial Biosciences, 925 Page Mill Road, Palo Alto, CA, 94304, USA.
(3)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Groningen, University
Medical Center Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, P.O. Box 30001, 9700 RB, Groningen, The
Netherlands. j.m.van.dijl01@umcg.nl.

BACKGROUND: Bacillus subtilis is an important industrial workhorse applied in the
production of many different commercially relevant proteins, especially enzymes. 
Virtually all of these proteins are secreted via the general secretion (Sec)
pathway. Studies from different laboratories have demonstrated essential or
non-essential contributions of various Sec machinery components to protein
secretion in B. subtilis. However, a systematic comparison of the impact of each 
individual Sec machinery component under conditions of high-level protein
secretion was so far missing.
RESULTS: In the present study, we have compared the contributions of
non-essential Sec pathway components and cell envelope-associated proteases on
the secretion efficiency of three proteins expressed at high level. This
concerned the Î±-amylases AmyE from B. subtilis and AmyL from Bacillus
licheniformis, and the serine protease BPN' from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens. We
compared the secretion capacity of mutant strains in shake flask cultures, and
the respective secretion kinetics by pulse-chase labeling experiments. The
results show that secDF, secG or rasP mutations severely affect AmyE, AmyL and
BPN' secretion, but the actual effect size depends on the investigated protein.
Additionally, the chaperone DnaK is important for BPN' secretion, while AmyE or
AmyL secretion are not affected by a dnaK deletion. Further, we assessed the
induction of secretion stress responses in mutant strains by examining AmyE- and 
AmyL-dependent induction of the quality control proteases HtrA and HtrB.
Interestingly, the deletion of certain sip genes revealed a strong differential
impact of particular signal peptidases on the magnitude of the secretion stress
response.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the present study highlight the importance of SecDF, 
SecG and RasP for protein secretion and reveal unexpected differences in the
induction of the secretion stress response in different mutant strains.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-020-01315-2 
PMCID: PMC7048088
PMID: 32111210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

