
1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Jan 15;700:134453. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.134453. 
Epub 2019 Oct 4.

Influence of Brevibacterium linens RS16 on foliage photosynthetic and volatile
emission characteristics upon heat stress in Eucalyptus grandis.

Chatterjee P(1), Kanagendran A(2), Samaddar S(3), Pazouki L(4), Sa TM(5),
Niinemets Ü(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental and Biological Chemistry, Chungbuk National
University Cheongju, Chungbuk 28644, Republic of Korea; Department of
Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of California, Davis, California 
95616, USA.
(2)Institute of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, Estonian University of
Life Sciences, Kreutzwaldi 1, Tartu 51006, Estonia; FARCE Lab, Institute of
Biology, University of Neuchâtel, Rue Emile-Argand 11, 2000 Neuchâtel,
Switzerland.
(3)Department of Environmental and Biological Chemistry, Chungbuk National
University Cheongju, Chungbuk 28644, Republic of Korea; Department of Land, Air, 
and Water Resources, University of California, Davis, California 95616, USA.
(4)Institute of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, Estonian University of
Life Sciences, Kreutzwaldi 1, Tartu 51006, Estonia; Department of Biology,
University of Louisville, Louisville, KY 40292, USA.
(5)Department of Environmental and Biological Chemistry, Chungbuk National
University Cheongju, Chungbuk 28644, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
tomsa@chungbuk.ac.kr.
(6)Institute of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, Estonian University of
Life Sciences, Kreutzwaldi 1, Tartu 51006, Estonia; Estonian Academy of Sciences,
Kohtu 6, 10130 Tallinn, Estonia. Electronic address: ylo.niinemets@emu.ee.

Erratum in
    Sci Total Environ. 2020 May 10;716:135445.

Heat stress induces secondary metabolic changes in plants, channeling
photosynthetic carbon and energy, away from primary metabolic processes,
including, growth. Use of ACC (1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate) deaminase
containing plant growth promoting bacteria (PGPB) in conferring heat resistance
in plants and the role of PGPB, in altering net carbon assimilation, constitutive
and stress volatile emissions has not been studied yet. We exposed leaves of
Eucalyptus grandis inoculated and non-inoculated with PGPB Brevibacterium linens 
RS16 to two levels of heat stress (37 °C and 41 °C for 5 min) and quantified
temporal changes in foliage photosynthetic characteristics and volatile emission 
rates at 0.5 h, day 1 and day 5 after the stress application. Heat stress
resulted in immediate reductions in dark-adapted photosystem II (PSII) quantum
yield (Fv/Fm), net assimilation rate (A), stomatal conductance to water vapor
(gs), and enhancement of stress volatile emissions, including enhanced emissions 
of green leaf volatiles (GLV), mono- and sesquiterpenes, light weight oxygenated 
volatile organic compounds (LOC), geranyl-geranyl diphosphate pathway volatiles
(GGDP), saturated aldehydes, and benzenoids, with partial recovery by day 5.
Changes in stress-induced volatiles were always less in leaves inoculated with B.
linens RS16. However, net assimilation rate was enhanced by bacterial inoculation
only in the 37 °C treatment and overall reduction of isoprene emissions was
observed in bacterially-treated leaves. Principal component analysis (PCA),
correlation analysis and partial least squares discriminant analysis (PLS-DA)
indicated that different stress applications influenced specific volatile organic
compounds. In addition, changes in the expression analysis of heat shock protein 
70 gene (DnaK) gene in B. linens RS16 upon exposure to higher temperatures
further indicated that B. linens RS16 has developed its own heat resistance
mechanism to survive under higher temperature regimes. Taken together, this study
demonstrates that foliar application of ACC deaminase containing PGPB can
ameliorate heat stress effects in realistic biological settings.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.134453 
PMID: 31670196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

