
1. Dev Comp Immunol. 2020 Oct;111:103750. doi: 10.1016/j.dci.2020.103750. Epub 2020 
May 21.

Complement component C1q plays a critical role in VLRA/VLRC-mediated immune
response.

Li J(1), Ma Q(2), Liu H(2), Song X(3), Pang Y(2), Su P(2), Sun F(2), Gou M(2), Lu
J(2), Shan Y(2), Liu X(2), Li Q(2), Han Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Science, Liaoning Normal University, Dalian, 116029, China;
Lamprey Research Center, Liaoning Normal University, Dalian, 116029, China;
Collaborative Innovation Center of Seafood Deep Processing, Dalian Polytechnic
University, Dalian, 116034, China; Liaoning Key Laboratory of Aquatic Animal
Infectious Diseases Control and Prevention, Liaoning Institute of Freshwater
Fisheries Sciences, Liaoyang, 111000, China.
(2)College of Life Science, Liaoning Normal University, Dalian, 116029, China;
Lamprey Research Center, Liaoning Normal University, Dalian, 116029, China;
Collaborative Innovation Center of Seafood Deep Processing, Dalian Polytechnic
University, Dalian, 116034, China.
(3)College of Life Science, Liaoning Normal University, Dalian, 116029, China;
Lamprey Research Center, Liaoning Normal University, Dalian, 116029, China;
Collaborative Innovation Center of Seafood Deep Processing, Dalian Polytechnic
University, Dalian, 116034, China; Affiliated Zhongshan Hospital of Dalian
University, Dalian 116001, China.
(4)College of Life Science, Liaoning Normal University, Dalian, 116029, China;
Lamprey Research Center, Liaoning Normal University, Dalian, 116029, China;
Collaborative Innovation Center of Seafood Deep Processing, Dalian Polytechnic
University, Dalian, 116034, China. Electronic address: hanyinglun@163.com.

In jawless vertebrates, the lamprey complement component C1q (LC1q) acts as a
lectin and activates lamprey complement component C3 (LC3) in association with
mannose-binding lectin (MBL)-associated serine protease (MASP) via the lectin
pathway. Furthermore, LC1q may interact with variable lymphocyte receptor B
(VLRB) in a complex with antigens and mediate the activation of LC3, leading to
cytolysis. In the present study, we found, for the first time, that LC1q plays a 
critical role in VLRA/VLRC-mediated immune response. Escherichia coli, Shigella
flexneri, Aeromonas hydrophila, Pseudomonas plecoglossicida, Aeromonas
allosaccharophila, P. luteola, Brevundimonas diminuta, and Bacillus cereus were
isolated from infected Lampetra morii in our laboratory and identified using the 
16s rRNA method. A. hydrophila was confirmed as a rapidly spreading lethal
pathogen in the larvae of L. morii and was used in subsequent immune stimulation 
experiments. The results of real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction
(Q-PCR) and immunofluorescence analyses indicated that the RNA and protein
expression levels of LC1q were upregulated following exposure to 107 cfu/mL of A.
hydrophila, compared to the levels of the naïve group. We obtained LC1q morphants
(LC1q MO) of lamprey larvae by morpholino-mediated knockdowns. We found that LC1q
played key roles in the embryonic development of lamprey. The median lethal time 
(LT50) of LC1q MO larvae was 2 d after being exposed to the pathogens, whereas
the LT50 of control MO was 5 d. The drastic decrease in LT50 values after LC1q
knockdown implies that LC1q plays a critical role in lamprey immune response.
Gene expression profiles of LC1q-deficient A. hydrophila, control MO A.
hydrophila, wild type A. hydrophila, and naive 1-month-old ammocoetes larvae were
compared by examining the expression levels of a selected panel of orthologous
genes. It is worth mentioning that LC1q MO affected the VLRA+/VLRC + population
genes but did not affect the VLRB + populations. Immunohistochemical data
indicated that LC1q deficiency also affected VLRA and VLRC but not VLRB. Thus,
LC1q plays a critical role in VLRA/VLRC-mediated immune response in lamprey.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dci.2020.103750 
PMID: 32447013 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no competing financial interests.

