
1. Exp Ther Med. 2020 Mar;19(3):2149-2154. doi: 10.3892/etm.2020.8477. Epub 2020 Jan
28.

Extracellular production of recombinant sus scrofa trefoil factor 3 by
Brevibacillus choshinensis.

Li HP(1), Xu CM(1), Wen BY(1), Li AQ(2), Zha GM(1), Jin XY(1), Zhao YZ(1), Feng
LP(1), Cao YD(1), Yang GY(1), Wang YY(1), Zhong K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Biochemistry and Nutrition, Ministry of Agriculture, 
Henan Agricultural University, Zhengzhou, Henan 450002, P.R. China.
(2)Kansas International College, Zhengzhou Sias University, Xinzheng, Henan
451100, P.R. China.

Trefoil factor 3 (TFF3) is involved in cell adhesion, motility and apoptosis,
regulates mucosal immunity and maintains the functional integrity of intestinal
epithelia. The upregulation of TFF3 expression in the weaning rat intestine
attracted our interest. The present study hypothesized that TFF3 may serve a role
in preventing diarrhea in weaning piglets, which is an important consideration in
the pig farming industry. Previous recombinant TFF3 protein expression yields
obtained from Escherichia coli were too low and the bioactivity of the protein
was poor. Hence, this expression system was unsuitable for industrial
applications. The present study explored the production of recombinant sus scrofa
TFF3 in a Brevibacillus choshinensis (B. choshinensis) expression system, aiming 
to enhance the expression level of bioactive protein. To achieve this, the sus
scrofa TFF3-encoding gene fragment was fused into an E. coli-Brevibacillus
shuttle vector pNCMO2. High levels of TFF3 (30 mg/l) were produced and secreted
into the B. choshinensis culture medium in soluble form with a molecular mass of 
13.6 kDa and high immunoreactivity in western blotting. Thus, Brevibacillus may
be used to produce useful mucosal factors for biochemical analyses and mucosal
protection, and in industrial applications to produce novel inhibitors of
diarrhea.

Copyright: Â© Li et al.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2020.8477 
PMCID: PMC7027283
PMID: 32104278 

