
1. J Environ Manage. 2019 Oct 15;248:109239. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2019.07.010.
Epub 2019 Jul 12.

Influence of inoculum variation on formation and stability of aerobic granules in
oily wastewater treatment.

Ghosh S(1), Chakraborty S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for the Environment, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, Assam,
781039, India.
(2)Centre for the Environment, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, Assam,
781039, India; Department of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology
Guwahati, Assam, 781039, India. Electronic address: saswati@iitg.ac.in.

This study provides extensive information about oily wastewater treatment in
aerobic granular reactors (AGR) using three different inoculums from sewage,
refinery and brewery. Initially, sodium acetate was used for granule formation
while AGR with brewery inoculum had maximum granule size (5.44 ± 0.05 mm) and
extracellular polymeric substances (EPS: 471.22 ± 2.0 mg/g VSS). But, during
emulsified diesel exposure, refinery sludge granules achieved maximum granule
size of 3.49 ± 0.01 mm and EPS of 204.85 ± 2.01 mg/g VSS with maximum
67.39 ± 0.15% oil removal efficiency. AGRs achieved 99.9 ± 0.05% chemical oxygen 
demand (COD) and 91.67 ± 0.14% ammonia nitrogen (NH4+-N) removal efficiencies.
Refinery granules remained stable at maximum 310 ± 10 mg/L diesel concentration
whereas, the stability thresholds for sewage and brewery granules were 170 ± 15
and 250 ± 10 mg/L, respectively. Brevibacterium paucivorans strain SG001,
Micrococcus aloeverae strain SG002 and Staphylococcus hominis strain SG003 were
identified as the major pollutant degraders isolated from sewage, refinery and
brewery sludge. Micrococcus aloeverae strain SG002 exhibited maximum pollutant
removal efficiencies (COD: 99.9 ± 0.01%, NH4+-N: 99.9 ± 0.01%, oil:
61.34 ± 0.85%) among the three species. Re-addition of sodium acetate restored
granule structure and stability.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2019.07.010 
PMID: 31306929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

