
1. mBio. 2020 Aug 25;11(4). pii: e01917-20. doi: 10.1128/mBio.01917-20.

Cooperation, Competition, and Specialized Metabolism in a Simplified Root Nodule 
Microbiome.

Hansen BL(1), Pessotti RC(1), Fischer MS(1), Collins A(2), El-Hifnawi L(2), Liu
MD(3), Traxler MF(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
Berkeley, California, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of California,
Berkeley, Berkeley, California, USA.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley,
California, USA.
(4)Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
Berkeley, California, USA mtrax@berkeley.edu.

Microbiomes associated with various plant structures often contain members with
the potential to make specialized metabolites, e.g., molecules with
antibacterial, antifungal, or siderophore activities. However, when and where
microbes associated with plants produce specialized metabolites, and the
potential role of these molecules in mediating intramicrobiome interactions, is
not well understood. Root nodules of legume plants are organs devoted to hosting 
symbiotic bacteria that fix atmospheric nitrogen and have recently been shown to 
harbor a relatively simple accessory microbiome containing members with the
ability to produce specialized metabolites in vitro On the basis of these
observations, we sought to develop a model nodule microbiome system for
evaluating specialized microbial metabolism in planta Starting with an inoculum
derived from field-grown Medicago sativa nodules, serial passaging through
gnotobiotic nodules yielded a simplified accessory community composed of four
members: Brevibacillus brevis , Paenibacillus sp., Pantoea agglomerans, and
Pseudomonas sp. Some members of this community exhibited clear cooperation in
planta, while others were antagonistic and capable of disrupting cooperation
between other partners. Using matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-imaging
mass spectrometry, we found that metabolites associated with individual taxa had 
unique distributions, indicating that some members of the nodule community were
spatially segregated. Finally, we identified two families of molecules produced
by B. brevis in planta as the antibacterial tyrocidines and a novel set of
gramicidin-type molecules, which we term the britacidins. Collectively, these
results indicate that in addition to nitrogen fixation, legume root nodules are
likely also sites of active antimicrobial production.

Copyright Â© 2020 Hansen et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mBio.01917-20 
PMCID: PMC7448283
PMID: 32843548 

