
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 Sep 25. pii: AEM.01981-20. doi:
10.1128/AEM.01981-20. [Epub ahead of print]

Novel modifications of nonribosomal peptides from Brevibacillus laterosporus MG64
and investigation of their mode of action.

Li Z(1), de Vries RH(2), Chakraborty P(3), Song C(4), Zhao X(1), Scheffers DJ(3),
Roelfes G(2), Kuipers OP(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Groningen Biomolecular Sciences and
Biotechnology Institute, University of Groningen, Groningen, 9747AG, the
Netherlands.
(2)Biomolecular Chemistry & Catalysis, Stratingh Institute for Chemistry,
University of Groningen, Groningen, 9747AG, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Molecular Microbiology, Groningen Biomolecular Sciences and
Biotechnology Institute, University of Groningen, Groningen, 9747AG, the
Netherlands.
(4)College of Resources and Environmental Science; National Academy of
Agriculture Green Development; Key Laboratory of Plant-Soil Interaction, Ministry
of Education, China Agricultural University, Beijing, 100193, China.
(5)Department of Molecular Genetics, Groningen Biomolecular Sciences and
Biotechnology Institute, University of Groningen, Groningen, 9747AG, the
Netherlands o.p.kuipers@rug.nl.

Nonribosomal peptides (NRPs) are a class of secondary metabolites usually
produced by microorganisms. They are of paramount importance in different
applications including biocontrol and pharmacy. Brevibacillus spp. is a rich
source of NRPs yet has received little attention. In this study, we characterize 
four novel bogorol variants (bogorol I-L, cationic linear lipopeptides) and four 
succilins (succilin I-L, containing a succinyl group that is attached to the
Orn3/Lys3 in bogorol I-L) from the biocontrol strain B. laterosporus MG64.
Further investigation revealed that the bogorol family of peptides employ an
adenylation pathway for lipoinitiation, which is different from the usual pattern
that is based on an external ligase and coenzyme A. Moreover, the formation of
valinol was proven to be mediated by a terminal reductase domain and a reductase 
encoded by gene bogI Furthermore, succinylation, which is a novel type of
modification in the family of bogorols, was discovered. Its occurrence requires a
high concentration of substrate (bogorols) but its responsible enzyme remains
unknown. Bogorols display potent activity against both Gram-positive and
Gram-negative bacteria. Investigation of their mode of action reveals that
bogorols form pores in the cell membrane of both Gram-positive and Gram-negative 
bacteria. A combination of bogorols and relacidines, another class of NRPs
produced by B. laterosporus MG64, displays a synergistic effect on different
pathogens, suggesting great potential of both peptides as well as their producer 
B. laterosporus MG64 for broad applications. Our study provides a further
understanding of the bogorol family of peptides as well as their
applications.Importance NRPs form a class of secondary metabolites with
biocontrol and pharmaceutical potential. This work describes the identification
of novel bogorol variants and succinylated bogorols (namely succilins) and
further investigate their biosynthetic pathway and mode of action. Adenylation
domain-mediated lipoinitiation of bogorols represents a novel pathway of NRPs to 
incorporate fatty acid tail. This pathway provides the possibility to engineer
the lipid tail of NRPs without identifying a fatty acid coenzyme ligase, which is
usually not present in the biosynthetic gene cluster. The terminal reductase
domain (TD) and BogI-mediated valinol formation and its effect on the biological 
activity of bogorols are revealed. Succinylation, which is barely reported in
NRPs, is discovered in the bogorol family of peptides. We demonstrate that
bogorols combat bacterial pathogens by forming pores in the cell membrane. We
also report synergistic effect of two natural products (relacidine B and bogorol 
K) produced by the same strain, which is relevant for competition for a niche.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01981-20 
PMID: 32978140 

