
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Jun 3;21(11). pii: E4011. doi: 10.3390/ijms21114011.

An off-the-Shelf Approach for the Production of Fc Fusion Proteins by Protein
Trans-Splicing towards Generating a Lectibody In Vitro.

Jaakkonen A(1)(2), Volkmann G(1), Iwa√Ø H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, FI-00014 Helsinki,
Finland.
(2)Present Address: Microbiology Unit, Finnish Food Authority, FI-00790 Helsinki,
Finland.

Monoclonal antibodies, engineered antibodies, and antibody fragments have become 
important biological therapeutic platforms. The IgG format with bivalent binding 
sites has a modular structure with different biological roles, i.e., effector and
binding functions, in different domains. We demonstrated the reconstruction of an
IgG-like domain structure in vitro by protein ligation using protein
trans-splicing. We produced various binding domains to replace the binding domain
of IgG from Escherichia coli and the Fc domain of human IgG from Brevibacillus
choshinensis as split-intein fusions. We showed that in vitro protein ligation
could produce various Fc-fusions at the N-terminus in vitro from the
independently produced domains from different organisms. We thus propose an
off-the-shelf approach for the combinatorial production of Fc fusions in vitro
with several distinct binding domains, particularly from naturally occurring
binding domains. Antiviral lectins from algae are known to inhibit virus entry of
HIV and SARS coronavirus. We demonstrated that a lectin could be fused with the
Fc-domain in vitro by protein ligation, producing an IgG-like molecule as a
"lectibody". Such an Fc-fusion could be produced in vitro by this approach, which
could be an attractive method for developing potential therapeutic agents against
rapidly emerging infectious diseases like SARS coronavirus without any genetic
fusion and expression optimization.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21114011 
PMCID: PMC7313076
PMID: 32503354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

