
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 May 19;10:223. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00223.
eCollection 2020.

Gut Microbiota Dysbiosis Associated With Altered Production of Short Chain Fatty 
Acids in Children With Neurodevelopmental Disorders.

Bojović K(1), Ignjatović ÐI(2), Soković Bajić S(3), Vojnović Milutinović D(2),
Tomić M(2), Golić N(3), Tolinački M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Psychiatry Clinic "Dr Selaković", Belgrade, Serbia.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Institute for Biological Research "Siniša
Stanković", University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(3)Laboratory for Molecular Microbiology, Institute of Molecular Genetics and
Genetic Engineering, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.

While gut microbiota dysbiosis has been linked with autism, its role in the
etiology of other neurodevelopmental disorders (NDD) is largely underexplored. To
our knowledge this is the first study to evaluate gut microbiota diversity and
composition in 36 children from the Republic of Serbia diagnosed with NDD and 28 
healthy children. The results revealed an increased incidence of potentially
harmful bacteria, closely related to Clostridium species, in the NDD patient
group compared to the Control group: Desulfotomaculum guttoideum (P < 0.01),
Intestinibacter bartlettii (P < 0.05), and Romboutsia ilealis (P < 0.001). On the
other hand, significantly lower diversity of common commensal bacteria in the NDD
group of patients was noticed. Enterococcus faecalis (P < 0.05), Enterococcus
gallinarum (P < 0.01), Streptococcus pasteurianus (P < 0.05), Lactobacillus
rhamnosus (P < 0.01) and Bifidobacteria sp. were detected in lower numbers of
patients or were even absent in some NDD patients. In addition,
butyrate-producing bacteria Faecalibacterium prausnitzii (P < 0.01),
Butyricicoccus pullicaecorum (P < 0.05), and Eubacterium rectale (P = 0.07) were 
less frequent in the NDD patient group. In line with that, the levels of fecal
short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) were determined. Although significant differences
in SCFA levels were not detected between NDD patients and the Control group, a
positive correlation was noted between number of rDNA amplicons obtained with
universal primers and level of propionic acid, as well as a trend for levels of
total SCFAs and butyric acid in the Control group. This correlation is lost in
the NDD patient group, indicating that NDD patients' microbiota differs from the 
microbiota of healthy children in the presence or number of strong SCFA-producing
bacteria. According to a range-weighted richness index it was observed that
microbial diversity was significantly lower in the NDD patient group. Our study
reveals that the intestinal microbiota from NDD patients differs from the
microbiota of healthy children. It is hypothesized that early life microbiome
might have an impact on GI disturbances and accompanied behavioral problems
frequently observed in patients with a broad spectrum of NDD.

Copyright © 2020 Bojović, Ignjatović, Soković Bajić, Vojnović Milutinović, Tomić,
Golić and Tolinački.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00223 
PMCID: PMC7248180
PMID: 32509596 

