
1. Poult Sci. 2020 Apr;99(4):1847-1861. doi: 10.1016/j.psj.2019.10.029. Epub 2020
Feb 24.

The association between microbial community and ileal gene expression on
intestinal wall thickness alterations in chickens.

Tang D(1), Li Z(1), Mahmood T(1), Liu D(1), Hu Y(1), Guo Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition, College of Animal Science and
Technology, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100193, P. R. China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition, College of Animal Science and
Technology, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100193, P. R. China.
Electronic address: guoyum@cau.edu.cn.

The dynamic development of the animal intestine with a concurrent succession of
microbiota and changes in microbial community and metabolite spectrum can exert
far-reaching effects on host physiology. However, the precise mechanism of mutual
response between microbiota and the gut is yet to be fully elucidated. Broilers
with varying developmental degrees of intestinal wall thickness were selected,
and they were divided into the thick group (H type) and the thin group (B type), 
using multiomics data integration analysis to reveal the fundamental regulatory
mechanisms of gut-microbiota interplay. Our data showed, in broilers with similar
body weight, the intestinal morphological parameters were improved in H type and 
the diversity of microbial communities is distinguishable from each other. The
beneficial bacteria such as Bifidobacterium breve was increased whereas avian
endogenous retrovirus EAV-HP was decreased in the H type compared with the B
type. Furthermore, microbial metabolic potentials were more active, especially
the biosynthesis of folate was improved in the H type. Similarly, the
consolidation of absorption, immunity, metabolism, and development was noticed
in the thick group. Correlation analysis indicated that the expression levels of 
material transport and immunomodulatory-related genes were positively correlated 
with the relative abundance of several probiotics such as B. breve, Lactobacillus
saerimneri, and Butyricicoccus pullicaecorum. Our findings suggest that the
chickens with well-developed ileal thickness own exclusive microbial composition 
and metabolic potential, which is closely related to small intestinal
morphogenesis and homeostasis.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psj.2019.10.029 
PMID: 32241465 

