
1. Pathogens. 2020 Sep 10;9(9). pii: E742. doi: 10.3390/pathogens9090742.

Assessing Campylobacter Colonization of Broiler Herds Ante Mortem and Monitoring 
Campylobacter Contamination Post Mortem by qPCR.

Overesch G(1), Haas K(1), Kuhnert P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Veterinary Bacteriology, University of Bern, 3012 Bern,
Switzerland.

Human campylobacteriosis is the most prevalent zoonosis, with chicken meat
contributing substantially to the number of cases. Measures to avoid or at least 
reduce exposure by meat contaminated with Campylobacter (C.) spp. are needed.
With regard to the process hygiene criterion introduced in 2018 for Campylobacter
spp. on broiler carcasses, we evaluated the performance of a recently developed
quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) for C. jejuni/coli on random caecal samples and
chicken meat. With the qPCR on pooled caecal samples not only C. jejuni/coli
positive (69.6%) versus negative broiler herds (30.4%) were identified, but herds
highly colonized with C. jejuni/coli (39.4%) could also be identified. From the
chicken meat samples, 8.0% were positive for C. jejuni/coli by qPCR and 0.7% by
enumeration (>10 cfu/g) compared to 58.3% using cultural enrichment. Given the
higher sensitivity, the qPCR method could replace the currently used enumeration 
method to assess the process hygiene criterion for Campylobacter spp. on broiler 
carcasses. Moreover, with the qPCR, a reliable identification of C. jejuni/coli
colonized incoming broiler herds a few days before slaughter is feasible, which
provides important information to optimize slaughter processes. Finally,
identifying and monitoring herds with high C. jejuni/coli colonization rates
could help to individually improve biosecurity measures at farm level, eventually
reducing the C. jejuni/coli load on chicken meat.

DOI: 10.3390/pathogens9090742 
PMID: 32927630 

