
1. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 Sep 24. doi: 10.1007/s10096-020-04043-y.
[Epub ahead of print]

Prediction of antimicrobial resistance in clinical Campylobacter jejuni isolates 
from whole-genome sequencing data.

Dahl LG(1), Joensen KG(1), Østerlund MT(1), Kiil K(1), Nielsen EM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bacteria, Parasites & Fungi, Statens Serum Institut, Copenhagen,
Denmark.
(2)Department of Bacteria, Parasites & Fungi, Statens Serum Institut, Copenhagen,
Denmark. emn@ssi.dk.

Campylobacter jejuni is recognised as the leading cause of bacterial
gastroenteritis in industrialised countries. Although the majority of
Campylobacter infections are self-limiting, antimicrobial treatment is necessary 
in severe cases. Therefore, the development of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in 
Campylobacter is a growing public health challenge and surveillance of AMR is
important for bacterial disease control. The aim of this study was to predict
antimicrobial resistance in C. jejuni from whole-genome sequencing data. A total 
of 516 clinical C. jejuni isolates collected between 2014 and 2017 were subjected
to WGS. Resistance phenotypes were determined by standard broth dilution,
categorising isolates as either susceptible or resistant based on epidemiological
cutoffs for six antimicrobials: ciprofloxacin, nalidixic acid, erythromycin,
gentamicin, streptomycin, and tetracycline. Resistance genotypes were identified 
using an in-house database containing reference genes with known point mutations 
and the presence of resistance genes was determined using the ResFinder database 
and four bioinformatical methods (modified KMA, ABRicate, ARIBA, and ResFinder
Batch Upload). We identified seven resistance genes including tet(O),
tet(O/32/O), ant(6)-Ia, aph(2″)-If, blaOXA, aph(3')-III, and cat as well as
mutations in three genes: gyrA, 23S rRNA, and rpsL. There was a high correlation 
between phenotypic resistance and the presence of known resistance genes and/or
point mutations. A correlation above 98% was seen for all antimicrobials except
streptomycin with a correlation of 92%. In conclusion, we found that WGS can
predict antimicrobial resistance with a high degree of accuracy and have the
potential to be a powerful tool for AMR surveillance.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-020-04043-y 
PMID: 32974772 

