
1. Vopr Pitan. 2020;89(4):125-145. doi: 10.24411/0042-8833-2020-10048. Epub 2020 Jul
29.

[Microbiological safety of food: development of normative and methodical base].

[Article in Russian]

Sheveleva SA(1), Kuvaeva IB(1), Efimochkina NR(1), Minaeva LP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Federal Research Centre of Nutrition, Biotechnology and Food Safety, 109240,
Moscow, Russian Federation.

The main results and prospects of fundamental and applied hygienic research of
the laboratory of biosafety and nutrimicrobiome analysis of the Federal Research 
Centre of Nutrition, Biotechnology and Food Safety (hereinafter - the Institute
of Nutrition) in the direction of developing a regulatory and methodological
framework for assessing the microbiological safety of food are reviewed. The
formation of microbiological regulation as a scientific analytical and
administrative managerial process in the former USSR and the Russian Federation
is considered in the context of historical data, including personal contribution 
of the scientists of the Institute of Nutrition and other specialists. The basic 
principles of regulation are emphasized: the scientific validity of the
established criteria and requirements, the feasibility, technological
attainability, differentiation according to the degree of danger to the health of
consumers, preventive nature. The resource of the national normative and
methodological base in the field of microbiological food safety at the turn of
the century is characterized, the features of the introduction of the
microbiological risk assessment (MRA) methodology in the substantiation of
Russian norms and measures for the prevention of food infections are described.
The information is given on the developed guidance documents on MRA and on the
examples of norms adopted on its basis. The article covers the issues of
reglamentation the requirements for food safety and reducing the spread of new
pathogens Stx-Escherichia coli, Listeria monocytogenes, Enterobacter sakazakii,
Campylobacter spp. in the food chain based on risk-oriented approaches. The
necessity of taking specific measures for the prevention of cross-contamination
in the poultry processing industry is substantiated, taking into account the
evidence of the high adaptability of C. jejuni isolated from domestic raw
poultry. In the sanitarian-mycological aspect, the monitoring perspective of
mould fungi, taking into account their chemotypes, in cereals and non-grain plant
products is shown to predict the risk of mycotoxin accumulation and take timely
measures. The need to assess the impact on the population, taking into account
the characteristics of consumption in the country, as well as the development of 
criteria for indirect risk of residues are argued for regulation of the
antibiotics in food. In light of the challenges in the field of agro- and food
technologies to public health at the present stage, contributing to the
acceleration of microbial evolution and the emergence of new risks in food, the
priority tasks of improving the regulatory and methodological base for assessing 
microbiological safety have been identified, with an emphasis on the introduction
into the process of substantiating the norms of innovative OMICs-technologies
based on the achievements of genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics,
bioinformatics.

CopyrightÂ© GEOTAR-Media Publishing Group.

DOI: 10.24411/0042-8833-2020-10048 
PMID: 32986327 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no overt and potential
conflict of interest related to the publication of this article.

