
1. PLoS One. 2020 Sep 17;15(9):e0239312. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0239312.
eCollection 2020.

Antimicrobial activity of organic acids against Campylobacter spp. and
development of combinations-A synergistic effect?

Peh E(1), Kittler S(1), Reich F(1)(2), Kehrenberg C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Food Quality and Food Safety, University of Veterinary Medicine 
Hannover, Foundation, Hannover, Germany.
(2)German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment (BfR), Berlin, Germany.
(3)Institute for Veterinary Food Science, Justus-Liebig-University Giessen,
Giessen, Germany.

Contaminated poultry meat is considered to be the main source of human infection 
with Campylobacter spp., a pathogen that asymptomatically colonizes broiler
chickens during fattening and contaminates carcasses during slaughter. To prevent
or reduce the colonization of broiler flocks with Campylobacter spp., applying
different organic acids, especially in combinations, via feed or drinking water
seems to be a promising approach. However, only very few combinations of organic 
acids have been tested for their antibacterial efficacy against Campylobacter
spp. Therefore, the in vitro susceptibility of 30 Campylobacter spp. isolates (20
C. jejuni and ten C. coli) to ten organic acids and ten combinations was
determined. The testing of minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) values was
performed at pH 6.0 and 7.3 by using the broth microdilution method and included 
the following organic acids: Caprylic acid, sorbic acid, caproic acid, benzoic
acid, ascorbic acid, propionic acid, acetic acid, formic acid, fumaric acid and
tartaric acid and combinations thereof. The lowest MIC values were seen for
caprylic acid (MIC range at pH 7.3: 0.5-2 mmol/L) and sorbic acid (MIC range at
pH 7.3: 1-4 mmol/L). One to two dilution steps lower MIC values were determined
at the lower pH value of 6.0. Furthermore, ten combinations consisting of three
to five organic acids were developed. In addition to the tested antibacterial
activity, other criteria were included such as approval as feed additives,
reported synergistic effects and chemical properties. For nine of ten
combinations, the MIC90 values of the organic acids decreased 1.25- to 241.5-fold
compared to the MIC90 values for the individual substances. Furthermore, nine of 
ten combinations exhibited synergistic activities against two or more of the
tested C. jejuni and C. coli isolates. A combination of caprylic acid, sorbic
acid and caproic acid exhibited synergistic activities against the largest number
of Campylobacter spp. isolates (six C. jejuni and four C. coli) with fractional
inhibitory concentration (FIC) indices (âˆ‘FIC) ranging from 0.33 to 1.42. This
study shows in vitro synergistic activities of different organic acids in
combinations against the major Campylobacter species and could therefore be a
promising basis for reducing Campylobacter spp. in vivo.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0239312 
PMCID: PMC7497993
PMID: 32941534 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

