
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Sep 21. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02212-y. [Epub ahead of
print]

Microbiota Analysis of Eggshells in Different Areas and During Different Storage 
Time by Non-cultural Methods.

Shi Y(1)(2), Wu S(3), Li W(2), Liu D(2), Ma G(2), Zhang Z(2), Yuan L(1), Li H(1),
Zhang S(1), Mushtaq N(1), Xu J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Medicine, Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, No. 76 Yanta West Road, Xi'an, 710061, Shaanxi, China.
(2)Shaanxi Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Xi'an, 710054, Shaanxi,
China.
(3)Department of Public Health, Xi'an Medical University, Xi'an, 710021, Shaanxi,
China.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Medicine, Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, No. 76 Yanta West Road, Xi'an, 710061, Shaanxi, China.
xujiru@mail.xjtu.edu.cn.

This study is to investigate and characterize the microbiota composition on
eggshells from 3 different areas of Shaanxi province (Yulin, Hanzhong and Xi'an).
The eggs were stored at 25 °C for 56 days and bacterial samples were collected
from eggshells on day 0, 14, 28, 42 and 56. Denaturing gradient gel
electrophoresis and high-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA hypervariable region
V3-V4 were performed. Alpha diversity was applied for analyzing the diversity of 
samples through 6 indices, including Observed-species, Chao1, Shannon, Simpson,
ACE and Good's-coverage. Beta diversity was used to study the similarities or
differences in the community composition of the samples. Totally, 36 phyla and
595 genera were classified by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The composition of the
microbial communities of different regions was quite different. Firmicutes
(33-38% of total phyla) and Actinobacteria (36-61% of total phyla) were the most 
abundant phyla in all three regions. Proteobacteria were relatively more abundant
(about 18% of total phyla) on eggs from Hanzhong. During storage time, the
microbial communities mainly changed from Firmicutes to Actinobacteria on eggs
from Yulin and Xi'an. Lactobacillus, Kocuria and Streptomyces were much higher at
the genus level. Spoilage bacteria Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Pseudomonas and
Enterococcus were detected at the genus level. Campylobacter jejuni (< 1% of
total bacteria), which might be related to human illness, was also detected. In
conclusion, the structure, abundance, and composition of microbiota on eggshells 
differ among areas. The microbiota changed regularly during storage time. The
current study may offer a new insight into bacterial species on eggshells.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02212-y 
PMID: 32959090 

