
1. Am J Clin Dermatol. 2020 Feb;21(1):139-147. doi: 10.1007/s40257-019-00471-5.

Characterization and Analysis of the Skin Microbiota in Rosacea: A Case-Control
Study.

Rainer BM(1)(2), Thompson KG(1), Antonescu C(3), Florea L(3), Mongodin EF(4), Bui
J(4), Fischer AH(1), Pasieka HB(1), Garza LA(1), Kang S(1), Chien AL(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Johns Hopkins University, 601 N. Caroline St.,
Suite 8033, Baltimore, MD, 21287, USA.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(3)McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(4)Institute for Genome Sciences, University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(5)Department of Dermatology, Johns Hopkins University, 601 N. Caroline St.,
Suite 8033, Baltimore, MD, 21287, USA. achien3@jhmi.edu.

BACKGROUND: The efficacy of antibiotics in rosacea treatment suggests a role for 
microorganisms in its pathophysiology. Growing concern over the adverse effects
of antibiotic use presents a need for targeted antimicrobial treatment in
rosacea.
OBJECTIVE: We performed a case-control study to investigate the skin microbiota
in patients with rosacea compared to controls matched by age, sex, and race.
METHODS: Nineteen participants with rosacea, erythematotelangiectatic,
papulopustular, or both, were matched to 19 rosacea-free controls. DNA was
extracted from skin swabs of the nose and bilateral cheeks of participants.
Sequencing of the V3V4 region of the bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA gene was
performed using Illumina MiSeq and analyzed using QIIME/MetaStats 2.0 software.
RESULTS: Compared with controls, skin microbiota in erythematotelangiectatic
rosacea was depleted in Roseomonas mucosa (p = 0.004). Papulopustular rosacea was
enriched in Campylobacter ureolyticus (p = 0.001), Corynebacterium kroppenstedtii
(p = 0.008), and the oral flora Prevotella intermedia (p = 0.001). The highest
relative abundance of C. kroppenstedtii was observed in patients with both
erythematotelangiectatic and papulopustular rosacea (19.2%), followed by
papulopustular (5.06%) and erythematotelangiectatic (1.21%) rosacea. C.
kroppenstedtii was also associated with more extensive disease, with the highest 
relative abundance in rosacea affecting both the cheeks and nose (2.82%),
followed by rosacea sparing the nose (1.93%), and controls (0.19%).
CONCLUSIONS: The skin microbiota in individuals with rosacea displays changes
from that of healthy skin, suggesting that further studies examining a potential 
role for the skin microbiota in the pathophysiology of rosacea may be warranted.

DOI: 10.1007/s40257-019-00471-5 
PMID: 31502207 

