
1. Poult Sci. 2020 Oct;99(10):5137-5142. doi: 10.1016/j.psj.2020.06.070. Epub 2020
Jul 31.

Evaluating the efficacy of peracetic acid on Salmonella and Campylobacter on
chicken wings at various pH levels.

Kataria J(1), Vaddu S(1), Rama EN(1), Sidhu G(1), Thippareddi H(1), Singh M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Poultry Science, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602, USA.
(2)Department of Poultry Science, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602, USA.
Electronic address: Manpreet@uga.edu.

Peracetic acid (PAA) is commonly used as an antimicrobial aid during poultry
processing to reduce the pathogen load on poultry and poultry products. However, 
limited research is available on the effects of pH on the efficacy of PAA against
Salmonella and Campylobacter. Therefore, the objective of this study was to
determine the efficacy of PAA in reducing Salmonella and Campylobacter
populations on chicken wings adjusted to various pH levels. Chicken wings
(0.454 kg each) were inoculated with nalidixic acid-resistant (200 ppm)
Salmonella Typhimurium (∼7 log10 cfu/mL) and gentamicin-resistant (200 ppm)
Campylobacter coli (∼6-7 log10 cfu/mL). Inoculated wings were treated with PAA by
immersion for 10 s or 60 min at 4°C to 6°C. The treatments included 50 ppm
(0.005%) and 500 ppm (0.05%) PAA at 3 pH levels (8.2, 10, and 11) or sodium
hydroxide (NaOH, pH 11). Surviving populations of Salmonella and Campylobacter
were determined by sampling the chicken wings after treatments. Irrespective of
concentration and pH of PAA, higher (P ≤ 0.05) reductions of Salmonella were
observed subsequent to 60 min exposure as compared with 10 s of immersion.
Immersion time and the higher pH of antimicrobial solutions did not affect
(P > 0.05) the antimicrobial efficacy of PAA (50 or 500 ppm) against
Campylobacter. The antimicrobial efficacy of PAA was not affected by pH of the
antimicrobial solutions, and longer exposure time and higher PAA concentrations
improve the antimicrobial efficacy.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psj.2020.06.070 
PMID: 32988552 

