
1. Foodborne Pathog Dis. 2020 Sep 15. doi: 10.1089/fpd.2020.2832. [Epub ahead of
print]

A Multiplex Quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction Using Applied Biosystems 7500 
Fast System for Simultaneous Identification of Three Campylobacter Species with
Potential Applications to Food Analysis.

Liu KC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Applied Technology Center at the Pacific Northwest Laboratory (PNL), Office of
Regulatory Science, Office of Regulatory Affairs (ORA), the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, Bothell, Washington, USA.

Consumption of Campylobacter-contaminated food is one of the most common causes
of bacterial diarrhea. A previously developed quantitative polymerase chain
reaction (qPCR) utilizing the SmartCycler instrument platform for identification 
of Campylobacter jejuni, Campylobacter coli, and Campylobacter lari had to be
modified to address the recent discontinuation of the SmartCycler system. In this
study, a multiplex qPCR assay was optimized on the Applied Biosystems 7500 Fast
(AB7500F) platform to continue using qPCR for the identification of three target 
Campylobacter spp. AB7500F qPCR efficiencies obtained by testing reference
genomic DNA (gDNA) were 90.9%, 86.4%, and 94.6% for C. jejuni, C. coli, and C.
lari, respectively, with all correlation coefficient values >0.99. The qPCR
results exhibited 100% specificity by testing gDNA samples from 37 non-target
reference strains and 86 target strains (50 C. jejuni, 27 C. coli, and 9 C. lari 
strains) in this study. The lowest detection level using gDNA was 4, 7, and 2
genome copies per reaction for C. jejuni, C. coli, and C. lari, respectively.
With a 2-day enrichment procedure, the qPCR method correctly detected target
species in a spiked food matrix (frog leg, an aquaculture product). The
sensitivity in 25â€‰g food matrix was 4 colony-forming units (CFUs) for C. jejuni, 
3 CFUs for C. coli, and 2 CFUs for C. lari. The results suggest that this
AB7500F-based qPCR has potential applications for the identification of C.
jejuni, C. coli, and C. lari in contaminated food.

DOI: 10.1089/fpd.2020.2832 
PMID: 32931346 

