
1. Ital J Food Saf. 2020 Aug 28;9(2):8591. doi: 10.4081/ijfs.2020.8591. eCollection 
2020 Aug 19.

Detection and quantification of Campylobacter in foods: New analytic approaches
to detect and quantify Campylobacter spp. in food samples.

Peruzy MF(1), Proroga YTR(2), Capuano F(2), Corrado F(2), Santonicola S(3), De
Medici D(4), Delibato E(4), Murru N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Production, University of Naples 
Federico II, Napoli.
(2)Department of Food Microbiology, Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale del
Mezzogiorno, Portici.
(3)Department of Medicine and Health Science Vincenzo Tiberio, University of
Molise, Campobasso.
(4)Department of Food Safety, Nutrition and Veterinary Public Health, Istituto
Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy.

The aim of the present study was to develop rapid qualitative and quantitative
methods based on the use of Real-Time PCR and Droplet Digital PCR (ddPCR), in
order to have reliable techniques to detect and quantify Campylobacter spp. in
food samples. The gene 16S-rRNA was used as specific target for Campylobacter
spp. Real- Time PCR evaluation assay and a not competitive internal control was
ushered in it. To investigate the selectivity of the method, 26 Campylobacter
strains and 40 non-Campylobacter strains were tested and in order to verify the
application of Real- Time PCR method, 5 pork meat samples were experimentally
inoculated with a Campylobacter jejuni strain. Subsequently, dilutions with a
bacterial load of Campylobacter jejuni within 10-106 CFU/mL were chosen for the
optimization of the ddPCR assay. Lastly, a total of 54 naturally contaminated
foods samples were analyzed through molecular (Real-Time PCR and ddPCR) and
traditional methods. The Real-Time PCR protocol demonstrated to amplify only the 
Campylobacter spp. strains and when Campylobacter jejuni was experimentally
inoculated in meat samples the pathogen was always detected. The ddPCRs assay
allowed to quantify a level of contamination of 10 CFU/mL, but it was unable to
quantify levels of 105 - 106 CFU/mL. Lastly, Campylobacter spp. was never
detected in the 54 samples tested. In conclusion, the novel analytic approach
proposed, based on an initial screening of the samples with Real-Time PCR and
then on quantification of Campylobacter spp. with a ddPCR on those positive,
represents a quick monitoring tool and, if used correctly, it would allow the
implementation of food safety.

©Copyright: the Author(s).

DOI: 10.4081/ijfs.2020.8591 
PMCID: PMC7477723
PMID: 32944567 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare no
potential conflict of interest.

