
1. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2020 Aug;55(8):924-930. doi:
10.1080/00365521.2020.1792976. Epub 2020 Jul 15.

Campylobacter concisus is prevalent in the gastrointestinal tract of patients
with microscopic colitis.

Yde Aagaard ME(1)(2), Frahm Kirk K(1), Linde Nielsen H(2)(3), Harder Tarpgaard
I(3), Bach Hansen J(4), Nielsen H(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Aalborg University Hospital, Aalborg,
Denmark.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark.
(3)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Aalborg University Hospital, Aalborg,
Denmark.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Aalborg University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark.

OBJECTIVES: Microscopic colitis (MC) is potentially induced by an inflammatory
reaction to a luminal gut factor. The emerging pathogen Campylobacter concisus is
associated with prolonged diarrhoea and subsequently increased risk of MC. We
aimed to examine the prevalence of C. concisus in clinical samples from MC
patients, analyse the subtypes collagenous colitis (CC) and lymphocytic colitis
(LC), and characterise C. concisus isolates from MC patients by genomic
sequencing.
METHODS: Mucosal biopsies were collected by sigmoidoscopy in 55 MC patients (CC
n = 34, LC n = 21). Saliva and faecal samples were also collected. A two-step
cultivation method and PCR established C. concisus prevalence. Biopsy and faecal 
isolates were sequenced for genomic analysis.
RESULTS: Cultivation revealed C. concisus in saliva 55/55, faeces 14/55 and
biopsies 69/436, which was confirmed by PCR in faeces 28/55 and biopsies 215/430.
Interestingly, biopsy prevalence was higher in CC patients than in LC patients
both by cultivation (50/270 vs.19/166, p = .058) and by PCR (175/270 vs. 40/160, 
p < .0001). Long disease duration also affected biopsy prevalence both by
cultivation 30/244 (<2 years) vs. 39/192 (>2 years) (p = .025) and by PCR 103/239
(<2 years) vs. 112/191 (>2 years) (p = .002). Genomic analysis on sixty biopsy
and twenty faecal isolates revealed division into two clusters/genomospecies and 
a high presence of various, putative virulence genes (zot, exotoxin 9 and hcp).
CONCLUSIONS: Campylobacter concisus was prevalent in MC patients. Interestingly, 
the biopsy prevalence differed in biopsies from CC and LC patients and with
regard to disease duration. Further studies are needed to elucidate this possible
association.

DOI: 10.1080/00365521.2020.1792976 
PMID: 32667235 

