
1. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2020 Sep 23;44:e60. doi: 10.26633/RPSP.2020.60.
eCollection 2020.

[Detection of the ermB gene associated with macrolide resistance in Campylobacter
strains isolated from chickens marketed in Lima, PeruDetecção do gene ermB
associado à resistência a macrolídeos em cepas de Campylobacter isoladas de
frangos comercializados em Lima, no Peru].

[Article in Spanish]

Anampa D(1), Benites C(1), Lázaro C(1), Espinoza J(1), Angulo P(1), Díaz D(1),
Manchego A(1), Rojas M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Medicina Veterinaria, Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos
Lima Perú Facultad de Medicina Veterinaria, Universidad Nacional Mayor de San
Marcos, Lima, Perú.

Objective: To detect the presence of the ermB gene associated with macrolide
resistance in Campylobacter spp. strains isolated from chickens marketed in Lima,
Peru.
Methods: 120 samples of chicken skin from three markets in the districts of San
Martin de Porres (n = 30), Santa Anita (n = 20), and Independencia (n = 70),
located in the Province of Lima, Peru, were analyzed. Microbiological analysis of
the samples was carried out according to ISO standard 10272-1:2017. For the
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) confirmation of genus and species, 16-rRNA and
GlyA and hipO primers, respectively, were used. For the evaluation of antibiotic 
sensitivity, the Müller-Hinton agar with 5% blood, with sensi-discs for
azithromycin (15 µg) and erythromycin (15 µg), was used. For detection of the
ermB gene in strains with resistant phenotypes, conventional PCR was used.
Results: A total of 117 positive samples (97.5%) were obtained; of these, 100%
were compatible with Campylobacter coli (negative hippurate test) and confirmed
by PCR. The plate-based assessment of antibiotic resistance to azithromycin and
erythromycin resulted in 100% of strains with a phenotype that is resistant to
these macrolides, while the PCR to detect the ermB gene indicated a total of 62
positives (53%), which were confirmed through sequencing.
Conclusions: These results demonstrate that the chicken carcasses sold in markets
in Lima present contamination by C. coli with high resistance to macrolides,
which can be attributed to the presence of the ermB gene.

Publisher: Detectar a presença do gene ermB associado à resistência a macrolídeos
em cepas de Campylobacter spp. isoladas de frangos comercializados em Lima, no
Peru.Analisamos 120 amostras de pele de frango provenientes de três mercados nos 
distritos de San Martín de Porres (n=30), Santa Anita (n=20) e Independencia
(n=70), situados na Província de Lima, no Peru. Realizamos uma análise
microbiológica das amostras de acordo com as recomendações da norma ISO
10272-1:2017. Para a confirmação do gênero e espécie por reação em cadeia da
polimerase (PCR), utilizamos os primers 16-rRNA, GlyA e hypO. Para avaliar a
sensibilidade antimicrobiana, utilizamos ágar de Müller-Hinton-sangue a 5% com
discos de sensibilidade de azitromicina (15 µg) e eritromicina (15 µg). A
detecção do gene ermB em cepas com fenótipos resistentes foi feita por PCR
convencional.Obtivemos um total de 117 amostras positivas (97,5%), das quais 100%
foram compatíveis com Campylobacter coli (teste do hipurato negativo) e
confirmadas por PCR. Na avaliação da resistência antimicrobiana em placa para
azitromicina e eritromicina, 100% das cepas apresentaram fenótipo de resistência 
a estes macrolídeos, enquanto a PCR para a detecção do gene ermB indicou um total
de 62 cepas positivas (53%), que foram confirmadas por sequenciamento.Estes
resultados demonstram que as carcaças de frango comercializadas nos mercados de
Lima apresentam contaminação por C. coli com alta resistência a macrolídeos, o
que pode ser atribuído à presença do gene ermB.
DOI: 10.26633/RPSP.2020.60 
PMCID: PMC7498294
PMID: 32973906 

