
1. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2020 Sep 22. doi: 10.1111/lam.13390. [Epub ahead of print]

An in vitro investigation of the survival and/or growth of Campylobacter jejuni
in broiler digestate from different feed types.

Greene G(1)(2), Koolman L(1), Whyte P(2), Lynch H(2)(3), Coffey A(4), Lucey B(4),
Egan J(3), O'Connor L(5), Bolton D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Teagasc Food Research Centre, Ashtown, Dublin 15, Ireland.
(2)School of Veterinary Medicine, University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, 
Ireland.
(3)Department of Agriculture, Food and the Marine, Kildare, Ireland.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, Cork Institute of Technology, Cork,
Ireland.
(5)Food Safety Authority of Ireland, George's Dock, , Dublin, Ireland.

Campylobacter spp. is the leading cause of bacterial gastroenteritis worldwide
and poultry are the primary reservoir. The aim of this study was to investigate
the survival and/or growth of C. jejuni NCTC 11168 in broiler digestate prepared 
from commercial starter, grower and finisher feed formulations. Bolton broth and 
digestates were prepared, inoculated with C. jejuni NCTC 11168 (approximately 3
log10 CFU per ml) and incubated under microaerobic conditions at 42Â°C for 24
hours. Samples were taken at t = 0 (immediately after inoculation) and every 3
hours thereafter, serially diluted and plated onto mCCDA. C. jejuni grew as
expected in Bolton broth (control) reaching the early stationary phase after
approximately 15 hours. In contrast, although bacterial concentrations were
maintained for at least 9 hours, none of the feed digestates supported the growth
of C. jejuni, which were not detected after 15 hours. It is suggested that the
nutrients available in the feed digestates are not enough to support C. jejuni
growth and that additional factors may be at play in the avian gastrointestinal
tract (GIT).

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.13390 
PMID: 32964486 

