
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 Sep 4;335:108855. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108855. [Epub ahead of print]

Microbiological safety of ready-to-eat fresh-cut fruits and vegetables sold on
the Canadian retail market.

Zhang H(1), Yamamoto E(2), Murphy J(2), Locas A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Food Safety Science Directorate, Science Branch, Canadian Food Inspection
Agency, 1400 Merivale Road, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0Y9, Canada. Electronic address: 
helen.zhang@canada.ca.
(2)Food Safety Science Directorate, Science Branch, Canadian Food Inspection
Agency, 1400 Merivale Road, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0Y9, Canada.

Following implementation of Health Canada's Policy on Listeria monocytogenes in
Ready-to-Eat Foods by Canadian food safety authorities in 2011, a four-year study
(2012-2016) was carried out to gain baseline information on the occurrence of
bacterial pathogens, notably the prevalence and levels of Listeria monocytogenes 
(L. monocytogenes) in various product types of ready-to-eat (RTE) fresh-cut
fruits and fresh-cut vegetables sold at retail in Canada. A total of 10,070
pre-packaged samples, including 4691 fresh-cut fruit and 5379 fresh-cut vegetable
samples were collected from retail stores across Canada and analyzed for
bacterial pathogens and generic Escherichia coli (E. coli). Salmonella species
(spp.), E. coli O157, Shigella and Campylobacter were not detected in any of the 
tested samples. L. monocytogenes was identified in 0.51% (95% CI [0.34, 0.76]) of
the fresh-cut fruit and in 0.24% (95% CI [0.14, 0.41]) of the fresh-cut vegetable
samples. Of the 37 L. monocytogenes positive samples identified, levels of L.
monocytogenes <5 CFU/g, 5-<100 CFU/g, and ≥100 CFU/g were found in 67.6% (25/37),
24.3% (9/37) and 8.1% (3/37) of the samples, respectively. The results of this
study indicate that the vast majority of fresh-cut fruits and vegetables sold on 
the Canadian retail market are safe for consumption. However, contamination by L.
monocytogenes can infrequently occur in fresh-cut fruits and vegetables, with
certain types of fresh-cut fruits (i.e., melons, apples) and vegetables (i.e.,
mushrooms, cauliflower) being more likely to be contaminated than others. Safe
handling practices are recommended for producers, retailers and consumers
including storage at refrigerated temperatures.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108855 
PMID: 32949906 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.

