
1. J Food Prot. 2020 Oct 1;83(10):1726-1737. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X/JFP-19-453.

Evaluation of Chemical and Microbiological Contaminants in Fresh Fruits and
Vegetables from Peasant Markets in Cundinamarca, Colombia.

PatiÑo M, Valencia-Guerrero MF(1), Barbosa-Ángel ES(1), MartÍnez-CordÓn MJ(2),
Donado-Godoy P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Corporacíon Colombiana de Investigación Agropecuaria - agrosavia, Centro de
Investigación Tibaitatá - Kilometer 14 vía Mosquera-Bogotá, 250047, Mosquera,
Colombia.
(2)Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Sede Bogotá, Faculta de Ciencias,
Departamento de Química, Carrera 45 #26-85, 111321, Bogotá, Colombia.

ABSTRACT: In this study, chemical and microbiological contaminants were detected 
in fresh fruits and vegetables in peasant markets in the Department of
Cundinamarca to assess food safety. At least one pesticide was detected in 63% of
the samples evaluated (n = 100, including fruits and vegetables), and in 41% of
these, pesticides exceeded the maximum residue limit. Within the pesticides
found, 60% do not use a registry from the Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario to be
applied on the crops where they were detected and are included in the
toxicological categories "highly toxic" (category IB) and "moderately toxic"
(category II). Heavy metals were found in 45% of the samples, with cadmium (38%) 
and lead (14%) being the most frequent. The pathogenic microorganisms Escherichia
coli O157:H7, Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella, and Campylobacter sp. were
detected in 4, 2, 1, and 0% of the samples, respectively. Factors concerning
integrated crop management, contaminated inputs with chemicals and
microorganisms, and the lack of hygiene in the postharvest stage favor the
presence of pesticide residues, heavy metals, and the appearance of pathogenic
microorganisms. The results suggest the need to strengthen the implementation of 
integrated management strategies that guarantee the safety of fresh fruits and
vegetables in the country.
HIGHLIGHTS:

Copyright ©, International Association for Food Protection.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X/JFP-19-453 
PMID: 32971541 

