
1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Aug 9;751:141475. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.141475.
[Epub ahead of print]

Comparative decay of culturable faecal indicator bacteria, microbial source
tracking marker genes, and enteric pathogens in laboratory microcosms that mimic 
a sub-tropical environment.

Ahmed W(1), Toze S(2), Veal C(3), Fisher P(3), Zhang Q(4), Zhu Z(5), Staley C(5),
Sadowsky MJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Land and Water, Ecosciences Precinct, 41 Boggo Road, QLD, Australia.
Electronic address: Warish.Ahmed@csiro.au.
(2)CSIRO Land and Water, Ecosciences Precinct, 41 Boggo Road, QLD, Australia.
(3)Seqwater, 117 Brisbane Street, Ipswich, QLD, Australia.
(4)Department of Soil, Water, and Climate, and the BioTechnology Institute,
University of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN 55108, USA.
(5)Department of Surgery, University of Minnesota, MN 55455, USA.

Enteric pathogens can be present in drinking water catchments due to several
point and non-point sources of faecal contamination. Pathogen and contaminant
signatures will decay due to environmental stresses, such as temperature, Ultra
Violet (UV) radiation, salinity, and predation. In this study, we determined the 
decay of the culturable faecal indicator bacterium (FIB) Escherichia coli (E.
coli), two sewage-associated marker genes (Bacteroides HF183 and crAssphage
CPQ_056), and enteric pathogens (Campylobacter spp., human adenovirus 40/41, and 
Cryptosporidium parvum) in two freshwater laboratory microcosms using
culture-based, quantitative PCR (qPCR) and vital dye (determine the fraction of
viable Cryptosporidium oocysts) assays. Freshwater samples from the Lake Wappa
and Lake Wivenhoe (Australia) were seeded with untreated sewage and C. parvum
oocysts, and their declining concentrations were measured over a 28-day period.
Moreover, 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing was also undertaken to determine the
change/shift in sewage-associated bacterial communities using SourceTracker.
Overall, culturable E. coli and the HF183 marker gene decayed significantly
(p < 0.05) faster than did the qPCR measured enteric pathogens suggesting that
the absence of culturable FIB or qPCR HF183 in water samples may not indicate the
absence of pathogens. The decay of crAssphage was similar to that of HAdV 40/41
and other pathogens tested, suggesting crAssphage may be a better surrogate for
enteric viruses in sub-tropical catchment waters. The decay rates were greater at
25 °C compared to 15 °C, suggesting that FIB and pathogens persist longer in the 
winter season compared to summer. Overall decay rates of the tested
microorganisms in this microcosm study suggest that sub-tropical conditions,
especially temperature, have a negative impact on the persistence of tested
microorganisms. Sewage-associated bacterial communities also showed similar
patterns. Based on the results, which showed differences in simulated summer and 
winter temperatures for pathogen decay, corresponding management options and
treatment need to be adjusted accordingly to minimize human health risks
effectively.

Crown Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.141475 
PMID: 32890804 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

