
1. Gut Pathog. 2020 Mar 5;12:13. doi: 10.1186/s13099-020-00349-6. eCollection 2020.

Analyses of energy metabolism and stress defence provide insights into
Campylobacter concisus growth and pathogenicity.

Yeow M(1), Liu F(1), Ma R(1), Williams TJ(1), Riordan SM(2), Zhang L(1).

Author information: 
(1)1School of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences, University of New South
Wales, Kensington, Sydney, 2052 Australia.
(2)2Gastrointestinal and Liver Unit, Prince of Wales Hospital, University of New 
South Wales, Sydney, Australia.

Campylobacter concisus is an emerging enteric pathogen that is associated with
inflammatory bowel disease. Previous studies demonstrated that C. concisus is
non-saccharolytic and hydrogen gas (H2) is a critical factor for C. concisus
growth. In order to understand the molecular basis of the non-saccharolytic and
H2-dependent nature of C. concisus growth, in this study we examined the pathways
involving energy metabolism and oxidative stress defence in C. concisus.
Bioinformatic analysis of C. concisus genomes in comparison with the well-studied
enteric pathogen Campylobacter jejuni was performed. This study found that C.
concisus lacks a number of key enzymes in glycolysis, including glucokinase and
phosphofructokinase, and the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway. C. concisus has
an incomplete tricarboxylic acid cycle, with no identifiable succinyl-CoA
synthase or fumarate hydratase. C. concisus was inferred to use fewer amino acids
and have fewer candidate substrates as electron donors and acceptors compared to 
C. jejuni. The addition of DMSO or fumarate to media resulted in significantly
increased growth of C. concisus in the presence of H2 as an electron donor,
demonstrating that both can be used as electron acceptors. Catalase, an essential
enzyme for oxidative stress defence in C. jejuni, and various nitrosative stress 
enzymes, were not found in the C. concisus genome. Overall, C. concisus is
inferred to have a non-saccharolytic metabolism in which H2 is central to energy 
conservation, and a narrow selection of carboxylic acids and amino acids can be
utilised as organic substrates. In conclusion, this study provides a molecular
basis for the non-saccharolytic and hydrogen-dependent nature of C. concisus
energy metabolism pathways, which provides insights into the growth requirements 
and pathogenicity of this species.

Â© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1186/s13099-020-00349-6 
PMCID: PMC7059363
PMID: 32165925 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.

