
1. Pathogens. 2020 Sep 29;9(10). pii: E804. doi: 10.3390/pathogens9100804.

The Host-Specific Intestinal Microbiota Composition Impacts Campylobacter coli
Infection in a Clinical Mouse Model of Campylobacteriosis.

Heimesaat MM(1), Genger C(1), Klove S(1), Weschka D(1), Mousavi S(1), Bereswill
S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Microbiology, Infectious Diseases and Immunology,
Charité-University Medicine Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität Berlin,
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin and Berlin Institute of Health, 12203 Berlin,
Germany.

Human Campylobacter-infections are progressively rising globally. However, the
molecular mechanisms underlying C. coli-host interactions are incompletely
understood. In this study, we surveyed the impact of the host-specific intestinal
microbiota composition during peroral C. coli infection applying an established
murine campylobacteriosis model. Therefore, microbiota-depleted IL-10-/- mice
were subjected to peroral fecal microbiota transplantation from murine versus
human donors and infected with C. coli one week later by gavage. Irrespective of 
the microbiota, C. coli stably colonized the murine gastrointestinal tract until 
day 21 post-infection. Throughout the survey, C. coli-infected mice with a human 
intestinal microbiota displayed more frequently fecal blood as their murine
counterparts. Intestinal inflammatory sequelae of C. coli-infection could
exclusively be observed in mice with a human intestinal microbiota, as indicated 
by increased colonic numbers of apoptotic epithelial cells and innate as well as 
adaptive immune cell subsets, which were accompanied by more pronounced
pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion in the colon and mesenteric lymph nodes
versus mock controls. However, in extra-intestinal, including systemic
compartments, pro-inflammatory responses upon pathogen challenge could be
assessed in mice with either microbiota. In conclusion, the host-specific
intestinal microbiota composition has a profound effect on intestinal and
systemic pro-inflammatory immune responses during C. coli infection.

DOI: 10.3390/pathogens9100804 
PMID: 33003421 

