
1. Saudi J Biol Sci. 2020 Oct;27(10):2747-2755. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2020.06.027.
Epub 2020 Jun 24.

Enhanced modulation of gut microbial dynamics affecting body weight in birds
triggered by natural growth promoters administered in conventional feed.

Rashid Z(1), Mirani ZA(2), Zehra S(1), Gilani SMH(3), Ashraf A(4), Azhar A(1),
Al-Ghanim KA(5), Al-Misned F(5), Al-Mulahim N(5), Mahboob S(5), Galani S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Karachi Institute of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, University of
Karachi, Karachi, Pakistan.
(2)Pakistan Council of Scientific and Industrial Research Laboratories Complex,
Karachi, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Agriculture and Agribusiness Management, University of Karachi, 
Karachi, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Zoology, GC University Faisalabad, Faisalabad, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Zoology, College of Science, King Saud University, Riyadh 11451,
Saudi Arabia.

This study explored the effects of natural growth promoters (phytogenic feed
additives and organic acids) on animal performance, carcass characteristics,
blood parameters, gut microflora composition, and microbe-host interactions in
broiler chickens over a 42-day feeding period. Two-hundred-fifty-day-old chicks
were randomly assigned to one of five treatments: (i) control diets (CON); (ii)
control diets + 40 g/tons antibiotic growth promoter (AB); (iii) control
diets + 3 kg/tons organic acids (ORG); (iv) control diets + 3 kg/tons phytogenic 
feed additives (PHY); (v) control diets + 3 kg/tons organic acids + phytogenic
feed additive combination (COM). A non-significant differences (p > 0.05) were
observed in broiler performance among treatments at 21 days of age; however, a
gradually increasing body weight gain and reduced feed conversion ratio were
observed at 42 days in treatments versus control group. Biochemical indices were 
non-significant (p > 0.05) except for decreased cholesterol (p < 0.05) and
increased A/G ratio (p < 0.05) recorded in the treatment groups. The addition of 
PHY and ORG improved total counts of Enterococcus spp. and Lactobacillus spp.
(p < 0.05) as well as reduced caecal and ileal Campylobacter spp. and Escherichia
coli (p < 0.05). Correlation analysis elucidated beneficial bacteria
(Enterococcus spp. and Lactobacillus spp.) were positively and pathogenic
bacteria (Campylobacter spp. and E. coli) were negatively correlated (p < 0.05)
with host weight gain. The findings indicated that dietary supplementation of PHY
and ORG sustained balanced gut microflora, which in turn improved body weight.
This study broadens the significance of using PHY and ORG as safe alternatives to
antibiotic growth promoters for achieving healthier and economical broiler
production.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2020.06.027 
PMCID: PMC7499368
PMID: 32994734 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.

