
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Jan 7;21(2). pii: E373. doi: 10.3390/ijms21020373.

Campylobacter concisus Impairs Sodium Absorption in Colonic Epithelium via ENaC
Dysfunction and Claudin-8 Disruption.

Nattramilarasu PK(1), Bücker R(1), Lobo de Sá FD(1), Fromm A(1), Nagel O(1), Lee 
IM(1), Butkevych E(1), Mousavi S(2), Genger C(2), Kløve S(2), Heimesaat MM(2),
Bereswill S(2), Schweiger MR(3), Nielsen HL(4)(5), Troeger H(6), Schulzke JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Physiology/Nutritional Medicine, Medical Department,
Division of Gastroenterology, Infectiology and Rheumatology,
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 12203 Berlin, Germany.
(2)Institute of Microbiology, Infectious Diseases and Immunology,
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Campus Benjamin Franklin, 14195 Berlin,
Germany.
(3)Laboratory for Epigenetics and Tumour genetics, University Hospital Cologne
and Centre for Molecular Medicine Cologne, 50931 Cologne, Germany.
(4)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Aalborg University Hospital, 9000
Aalborg, Denmark.
(5)Department of Clinical Medicine, Aalborg University, 9000 Aalborg, Denmark.
(6)Medical Department, Division of Gastroenterology, Infectiology and
Rheumatology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 12203 Berlin, Germany.

The epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) can increase the colonic absorptive capacity
for salt and water. Campylobacter concisus is a common pathogenic
epsilonproteobacterium, causing enteritis and diarrhea. It can induce barrier
dysfunction in the intestine, but its influence on intestinal transport function 
is still unknown. Therefore, our study aimed to characterize C. concisus effects 
on ENaC using the HT-29/B6-GR/MR (epithelial cell line HT-29/B6 transfected with 
glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors) cell model and mouse colon. In
Ussing chambers, C. concisus infection inhibited ENaC-dependent Na+ transport as 
indicated by a reduction in amiloride-sensitive short circuit current (-55%, n = 
15, p < 0.001). This occurred via down-regulation of β- and γ-ENaC mRNA
expression and ENaC ubiquitination due to extracellular signal-regulated kinase
(ERK)1/2 activation, predicted by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA). In parallel, 
C. concisus reduced the expression of the sealing tight junction (TJ) protein
claudin-8 and induced claudin-8 redistribution off the TJ domain of the
enterocytes, which facilitates the back leakage of Na+ ions into the intestinal
lumen. In conclusion, C. concisus caused ENaC dysfunction via
interleukin-32-regulated ERK1/2, as well as claudin-8-dependent barrier
dysfunction-both of which contribute to Na+ malabsorption and diarrhea.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21020373 
PMCID: PMC7013563
PMID: 31936044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

