
1. Lasers Med Sci. 2020 Sep 4. doi: 10.1007/s10103-020-03136-6. [Epub ahead of
print]

Nonsurgical periodontal therapy with/without 980 nm diode laser in patients after
myocardial infarction: a randomized clinical trial.

Samulak R(1), Suwała M(2), Dembowska E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontology, Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin,
Szczecin, Poland. renata.samulak@pum.edu.pl.
(2)Department of Periodontology, Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin,
Szczecin, Poland.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the possible benefits (in terms of
periodontal status improvement and periodontal bacteria count reduction) of using
980 nm diode laser in the treatment of periodontitis in patients after myocardial
infarction. Thirty-six patients under 65 years of age (mean: 56.3 ± 7.9) with
periodontitis, 6 weeks to 6 months after myocardial infarction, were recruited
for the study. The control group (n = 18) received SRP (scaling, root planing and
polishing) while the test group (n = 18) received SRP followed by laser therapy
of the periodontal pockets with 980 nm diode laser, 1 W, continuous wave mode,
20 s per tooth side. Procedures were repeated twice at 5-7 day intervals.
Microbiological and periodontal examination, including periodontal pocket depth
(PPD), clinical attachment loss (CAL), bleeding on probing (BOP) and plaque
control record (PCR), were performed before treatment, 2 weeks and 3 months after
treatment. The study was registered on ClinicalTrials.gov with Identifier:
NCT04145557, 29.10.2019 "retrospectively registered". Additional use of laser
resulted in a significant reduction in pockets with PPD ≥ 7 mm (p = 0.0151). The 
diode laser reduced total bacteria count (p = 0.0154) and delayed recolonisation 
during a 3-month observation period. A significant increase in the number of
Capnocytophaga gingivalis was observed in the control group (p = 0.048).
Additional use of the diode laser after SRP had no significant effect on BOP, CAL
and PCR. Within the limitations of our study, we can conclude that 980 nm diode
laser can be a useful tool in the treatment of periodontitis in patients after
myocardial infarction.

DOI: 10.1007/s10103-020-03136-6 
PMID: 32885341 

