
1. Odontology. 2020 Jan;108(1):25-33. doi: 10.1007/s10266-019-00435-5. Epub 2019 Jun
18.

Relationship between TNF-α, MMP-8, and MMP-9 levels in gingival crevicular fluid 
and the subgingival microbiota in periodontal disease.

Romero-Castro NS(1), Vázquez-Villamar M(2), Muñoz-Valle JF(3), Reyes-Fernández
S(1), Serna-Radilla VO(1), García-Arellano S(3), Castro-Alarcón N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Escuela Superior de Odontología, Universidad Autónoma de Guerrero, Acapulco
Guerrero, Mexico.
(2)Escuela Superior de Ciencias Agropecuarias, Universidad Autónoma de Guerrero, 
Iguala Guerrero, Mexico.
(3)Instituto de Investigación en Ciencias Biomédicas, Universidad de Guadalajara,
Guadalajara Jalisco, Mexico.
(4)Facultad de Ciencias Químico Biológicas, Universidad Autónoma de Guerrero,
Chilpancingo Guerrero, Mexico. natividadcastro24@gmail.com.

Periodontitis is modulated by a complex dysbiotic microbiota, these species
stimulate upward the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-α,
which, in turn, upregulates the production of bone resorption molecules. Enzymes 
such as MMP-8 and 9 have been associated with the destructive disease. This study
evaluated the composition of periodontal microbiota with the checkerboard
hybridization technique and its correlation with TNF-α, MMP-8, and MMP-9
evaluated with ELISA, of 80 patients (45 healthy, and 35 with chronic
periodontitis). The frequency of the 18 species evaluated was higher in patients 
with bone loss compared with control group. TNF-α in gingival crevicular fluid
was significantly higher in bone loss group (p < 0.01); MMP-8 (p = 0.34) by MMP-9
(p < 0.05) in bone loss group obtained lower values than in control group.
Positive correlation of TNF-α was obtained with Aggregatibacter
actinomycetemcomitans (rho = 0.38; p < 0.01), Fusobacterium nucleatum
(rho = 0.25; p < 0.05) and Porphyromonas gingivalis (rho = 0.26; p < 0.05);
negative correlation of MMP-8 with A. actinomycetemcomitans (rho = 0.26;
p < 0.01), Capnocytophaga sputigena (rho = 0.33; p < 0.01), and F. nucleatum
(rho = 0.21; p < 0.05); also negative correlation of MMP-9 with F. nucleatum
(rho = 0.23; p < 0.05), P. gingivalis (rho = 0.23; p < 0.05), and Tannerella
forsythia (rho = 0.26; p < 0.01). TNF-α increased due to the increase in each
count of A. actinomycetemcomitans (β = 0.57; p = 0.00). The presence of A.
actinomycetemcomitans (β = 1.88; p = 0.00), Campylobacter rectus (β = 0.78;
p = 0.01), F. nucleatum (β = 0.65; p = 0.04), and P. gingivalis (β = 0.65;
p = 0.04) significantly increases TNF-α levels. TNF-α in gingival crevicular
fluid, despite the minimal amounts collected, is a good biomarker of periodontal 
disease; since levels of TNF-α increases with the increase of the most harmful
species to the periodontium.

DOI: 10.1007/s10266-019-00435-5 
PMID: 31214897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

