
1. Eng Life Sci. 2020 Feb 18;20(5-6):148-159. doi: 10.1002/elsc.201900151.
eCollection 2020 Apr.

Engineering Pseudomonas putida KT2440 for the production of isobutanol.

Nitschel R(1), Ankenbauer A(1), Welsch I(1), Wirth NT(1), Massner C(1), Ahmad
N(2), McColm S(2), Borges F(3), Fotheringham I(2), Takors R(1), Blombach B(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biochemical Engineering University of Stuttgart Stuttgart
Germany.
(2)Ingenza Ltd., Roslin Innovation Centre Charnock Bradley Building, Easter Bush 
Campus Roslin UK.
(3)Laboratoire d'Ingénierie des Biomolécules (LIBio) Université de Lorraine Nancy
France.
(4)Microbial Biotechnology, Campus Straubing for Biotechnology and Sustainability
Technical University of Munich Straubing Germany.

We engineered P. putida for the production of isobutanol from glucose by
preventing product and precursor degradation, inactivation of the soluble
transhydrogenase SthA, overexpression of the native ilvC and ilvD genes, and
implementation of the feedback-resistant acetolactate synthase AlsS from Bacillus
subtilis, ketoacid decarboxylase KivD from Lactococcus lactis, and aldehyde
dehydrogenase YqhD from Escherichia coli. The resulting strain P. putida Iso2
produced isobutanol with a substrate specific product yield (Y Iso/S) of 22 ±
2 mg per gram of glucose under aerobic conditions. Furthermore, we identified the
ketoacid decarboxylase from Carnobacterium maltaromaticum to be a suitable
alternative for isobutanol production, since replacement of kivD from L. lactis
in P. putida Iso2 by the variant from C. maltaromaticum yielded an identical
YIso/S. Although P. putida is regarded as obligate aerobic, we show that under
oxygen deprivation conditions this bacterium does not grow, remains metabolically
active, and that engineered producer strains secreted isobutanol also under the
non-growing conditions.

© 2019 The Authors. Engineering in Life Sciences published by WILEY‐VCH Verlag
GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/elsc.201900151 
PMCID: PMC7447888
PMID: 32874178 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared no conflict of
interest.

