
1. J Food Sci. 2020 Apr;85(4):1203-1212. doi: 10.1111/1750-3841.15072. Epub 2020 Mar
2.

Effect of in-package atmospheric cold plasma discharge on microbial safety and
quality of ready-to-eat ham in modified atmospheric packaging during storage.

Yadav B(1), Spinelli AC(1)(2), Misra NN(3)(4), Tsui YY(5), McMullen LM(1),
Roopesh MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Agricultural, Food and Nutritional Science, Univ. of Alberta,
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
(2)Dept. of Food Science, Univ. of Campinas UNICAMP, Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Dept. of Electrical Engineering, Dalhousie Univ., Halifax, Nova Scotia,
Canada.
(4)Ingenium Naturae Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai, India.
(5)Dept. of Electrical & Computer Engineering, Univ. of Alberta, Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada.

Listeria monocytogenes is often responsible for postprocessing contamination of
ready-to-eat (RTE) products including cooked ham. As an emerging technology,
atmospheric cold plasma (ACP) has the potential to inactivate L. monocytogenes in
packaged RTE meats. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the effect of
treatment time, modified atmosphere gas compositions (MAP), ham formulation, and 
post-treatment storage (1 and 7 days at 4 °C) on the reduction of a five-strain
cocktail of L. monocytogenes and quality changes in ham subjected to in-package
ACP treatment. Initial average cells population on ham surfaces were 8 log
CFU/cm2 . The ACP treatment time and gas composition significantly (P < 0.05)
influenced the inactivation of L. monocytogenes, irrespective of ham
formulations. When MAP1 (20% O2 + 40% CO2 + 40% N2 ) was used, there was a
significantly higher log reduction (>2 log reduction) in L. monocytogenes on ham 
in comparison to MAP2 (50% CO2 + 50% N2 ) and MAP3 (100% CO2 ), irrespective of
ham formulation. Addition of preservatives (that is, 0.1% sodium diacetate and
1.4% sodium lactate) or bacteriocins (that is, 0.05% of a partially purified
culture ferment from Carnobacterium maltaromaticum UAL 307) did not significantly
reduce cell counts of L. monocytogenes after ACP treatment. Regardless of type of
ham, storage of 24 hr after ACP treatment significantly reduced cells counts of
L. monocytogenes to approximately 4 log CFU/cm2 . Following 7 days of storage
after ACP treatment, L. monocytogenes counts were below the detection limit (>6
log reduction) when samples were stored in MAP1. However, there were significant 
changes in lipid oxidation and color after post-treatment storage. In conclusion,
the antimicrobial efficacy of ACP is strongly influenced by gas composition
inside the package and post-treatment storage. PRACTICAL APPLICATION: Surface
contamination of RTE ham with L. monocytogenes may occur during processing steps 
such as slicing and packaging. In-package ACP is an emerging nonthermal
technology, which can be used as a postpackaging decontamination step in
industrial settings. This study demonstrated the influence of in-package gas
composition, treatment time, post-treatment storage, and ham formulation on L.
monocytogenes inactivation efficacy of ACP. Results of present study will be
helpful to optimize in-package ACP treatment and storage conditions to reduce L. 
monocytogenes, while maintaining the quality of ham.

© 2020 Institute of Food Technologists®.

DOI: 10.1111/1750-3841.15072 
PMID: 32118300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

