
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jul 21;8(7). pii: E1093. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8071093.

New Insight into Antimicrobial Compounds from Food and Marine-Sourced
Carnobacterium Species through Phenotype and Genome Analyses.

Begrem S(1)(2), Ivaniuk F(2), Gigout-Chevalier F(2), Kolypczuk L(2), Bonnetot
S(2), Leroi F(2), Grovel O(1), Delbarre-Ladrat C(2), Passerini D(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Nantes, 44035 Nantes CEDEX 1, France.
(2)IFREMER, BRM, EM3B Laboratory, 44300 Nantes CEDEX 3, France.

Carnobacterium maltaromaticum and Carnobacterium divergens, isolated from food
products, are lactic acid bacteria known to produce active and efficient
bacteriocins. Other species, particularly those originating from marine sources, 
are less studied. The aim of the study is to select promising strains with
antimicrobial potential by combining genomic and phenotypic approaches on large
datasets comprising 12 Carnobacterium species. The biosynthetic gene cluster
(BGCs) diversity of 39 publicly available Carnobacterium spp. genomes revealed 67
BGCs, distributed according to the species and ecological niches. From zero to
six BGCs were predicted per strain and classified into four classes: terpene,
NRPS (non-ribosomal peptide synthetase), NRPS-PKS (hybrid non-ribosomal peptide
synthetase-polyketide synthase), RiPP (ribosomally synthesized and
post-translationally modified peptide). In parallel, the antimicrobial activity
of 260 strains from seafood products was evaluated. Among the 60% of active
strains, three genomes were sequenced and submitted to a dereplication process.
C. inhibens MIP2551 produced a high amountof H2O2, probably thanks to the
presence of four oxidase-encoding genes. C. maltaromaticum EBP3019 and SF668
strains were highly efficient against Listeria monocytogenes. A new extracellular
16 kDa unmodified bacteriocin in the EBP3019 strain and five different
bacteriocins in SF668 were highlighted. In this study, the overview of
antimicrobial BGC and inhibitory activities of Carnobacterium spp. allowed the
prediction of potential innovative natural products that could be relevant for
biotechnological applications.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8071093 
PMCID: PMC7409045
PMID: 32708353 

