
1. Meat Sci. 2020 Apr;162:108035. doi: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2019.108035. Epub 2019 Dec 
16.

Carnobacterium maltaromaticum as bioprotective culture in vitro and in cooked
ham.

Danielski GM(1), Imazaki PH(2), Andrade Cavalari CM(3), Daube G(4), Clinquart
A(2), Macedo REF(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Agrifood Food Research and Inovation (LAPIAgro), Graduate
Program in Animal Science, School of Life Sciences, Pontifícia Universidade
Católica do Paraná, Imaculada Conceição, 1155, 80215-901 Curitiba, Brazil;
Laboratory of Food Technology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Fundamental and
Applied Research for Animals & Health (FARAH), University of Liège, Avenue de
Cureghem 10, 4000 Liège, Belgium.
(2)Laboratory of Food Technology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Fundamental and
Applied Research for Animals & Health (FARAH), University of Liège, Avenue de
Cureghem 10, 4000 Liège, Belgium.
(3)Laboratory of Agrifood Food Research and Inovation (LAPIAgro), Graduate
Program in Animal Science, School of Life Sciences, Pontifícia Universidade
Católica do Paraná, Imaculada Conceição, 1155, 80215-901 Curitiba, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Food Microbiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Fundamental
and Applied Research for Animals & Health (FARAH), University of Liège, Avenue de
Cureghem 10, 4000 Liège, Belgium.
(5)Laboratory of Agrifood Food Research and Inovation (LAPIAgro), Graduate
Program in Animal Science, School of Life Sciences, Pontifícia Universidade
Católica do Paraná, Imaculada Conceição, 1155, 80215-901 Curitiba, Brazil.
Electronic address: renata.macedo@pucpr.br.

The bioprotective effects of Carnobacterium maltaromaticum (CM) strains were
assessed in vitro and in sliced cooked ham. CM strains were tested in vitro
against Listeria monocytogenes (LM), Escherichia coli O157:H7 (EC) and Salmonella
Typhimurium (ST). In vitro effect was evaluated using co-culture (with and
without EDTA) and cell-free supernatant (CFS). CFS was tested by agar well
diffusion and minimum inhibitory concentration. In cooked ham, the inhibitory
effect of CM on L. innocua (LI) and on the physicochemical parameters were
evaluated for 7 days at 4 °C. In co-cultures at -1 °C and 4 °C, all CM isolates
inhibited LM. A slight inhibition was observed against the Gram-negative bacteria
with the addition of EDTA. CFS did not show inhibitory effect under the studied
conditions. In cooked ham, CM inhibited LI growth and did not affect the
physicochemical parameters of the product during storage. CM strains show
potential to be used as bioprotective cultures in cold-stored cooked ham and
improve its safety.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2019.108035 
PMID: 31855662 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that there is no conflict of interest. This statement is to certify that 
all authors have seen and approved the manuscript being submitted. We warrant
that the article is the authors' original work. We warrant that the article is
not under consideration for publication elsewhere. On behalf of all co-authors,
the corresponding author shall bear full responsibility for the submission. We
attest to the fact that all authors listed on the title page have contributed
significantly to the work, have read the manuscript, attest to the validity and
legitimacy of the data and its interpretation, and agree to its submission to
Meat Science.

