
1. J Microbiol Methods. 2020 Aug;175:105961. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2020.105961. Epub 
2020 May 29.

qPCR quantification of Carnobacterium maltaromaticum, Brochothrix thermosphacta, 
and Serratia liquefaciens growth kinetics in mixed culture.

Mohsina K(1), Kaur M(2), Bowman JP(3), Powell S(4), Tamplin ML(5).

Author information: 
(1)Tasmanian Institute of Agriculture, University of Tasmania, Private Bag 54,
Hobart, Tasmania 7001, Australia. Electronic address: kaniz.mohsina@utas.edu.au.
(2)Tasmanian Institute of Agriculture, University of Tasmania, Private Bag 54,
Hobart, Tasmania 7001, Australia. Electronic address: mandeep.kaur@rmit.edu.au.
(3)Tasmanian Institute of Agriculture, University of Tasmania, Private Bag 54,
Hobart, Tasmania 7001, Australia. Electronic address: john.bowman@utas.edu.au.
(4)Tasmanian Institute of Agriculture, University of Tasmania, Private Bag 54,
Hobart, Tasmania 7001, Australia. Electronic address: Shane.Powell@utas.edu.au.
(5)Tasmanian Institute of Agriculture, University of Tasmania, Private Bag 54,
Hobart, Tasmania 7001, Australia. Electronic address: mark.tamplin@utas.edu.au.

Quantifying growth kinetics of specific spoilage microorganisms in mixed culture 
is required to describe the evolution of food microbiomes. A qPCR method was
developed to selectively amplify individual meat spoilage bacteria,
Carnobacterium maltaromaticum, Brochothrix thermosphacta and Serratia
liquefaciens, within a broth medium designed to simulate the composition of beef.
An optimized method of DNA extraction was produced for standard curve
construction. Method specificity was determined by individual single peaks in
melt curves. Reaction efficiency for standard curves of C. maltaromaticum, B.
thermosphacta and S. liquefaciens was high (R2 = 0.98-0.99), and linear
quantification was achieved over a 5 log CFU/ml range. Coefficient of variation
was calculated considering both threshold cycle (Ct) and bacterial concentration;
the value did not exceed 14% for inter- or intra-runs for either method.
Comparison of growth kinetic parameters derived from plate count and qPCR showed 
no significant variation (P > .05) for growth rate (GR) and maximum population
density (MPD); lag phase duration (LPD) was not included in this comparison due
to high innate variability. Log quantification of each isolate was validated in a
mixed-culture experiment for all three species with qPCR and plate count
differing less than 0.3 log CFU/ml (average 0.10 log CFU/ml, R2 = 0.98).

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mimet.2020.105961 
PMID: 32479869 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

