
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Apr 30;10(1):7335. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-63844-5.

Nested structure of intraspecific competition network in Carnobacterium
maltaromaticum.

Ramia NE(1)(2), Mangavel C(1), Gaiani C(1), Muller-Gueudin A(3), Taha S(2),
Revol-Junelles AM(1), Borges F(4).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Lorraine, LIBio, F-54000, Nancy, France.
(2)Laboratoire de Biotechnologies Appliquées, EDST, Université Libanaise,
Tripoli, Lebanon.
(3)Université de Lorraine, CNRS, Inria, IECL, F-54000, Nancy, France.
(4)Université de Lorraine, LIBio, F-54000, Nancy, France.
frederic.borges@univ-lorraine.fr.

While competition targeting food-borne pathogens is being widely documented, few 
studies have focused on competition among non-pathogenic food bacteria.
Carnobacterium maltaromaticum is a genetically diverse lactic acid bacterium
known for comprising several bacteriocinogenic strains with bioprotective
potentialities against the food-borne pathogen Listeria monocytogenes. The aim of
our study is to examine the network properties of competition among a collection 
of 73 strains of C. maltaromaticum and to characterize their individual
interaction potential. The performed high-throughput competition assays,
investigating 5 329 pairwise interactions, showed that intraspecific competition 
was major in C. maltaromaticum with approximately 56% of the sender strains
antagonizing at least one receiver strain. A high diversity of inhibitory and
sensitivity spectra was identified along with a majority of narrow inhibitory as 
well as sensitivity spectra. Through network analysis approach, we determined the
highly nested architecture of C. maltaromaticum competition network, thus showing
that competition in this species is determined by both the spectrum width of the 
inhibitory activity of sender strains and the spectrum width of the sensitivity
of receiver strains. This study provides knowledge of the competition network in 
C. maltaromaticum that could be used in rational assembly of compatible microbial
strains for the design of mixed starter cultures.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-63844-5 
PMCID: PMC7193615
PMID: 32355239 

