
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Oct;91:103547. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103547. Epub 2020 May 
7.

Large microbiota survey reveals how the microbial ecology of cooked ham is shaped
by different processing steps.

Zagdoun M(1), Coeuret G(1), N'Dione M(1), Champomier-Vergès MC(1), Chaillou S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris-Saclay, INRAE, AgroParisTech, Micalis Institute, 78350,
Jouy-en-Josas, France.
(2)Université Paris-Saclay, INRAE, AgroParisTech, Micalis Institute, 78350,
Jouy-en-Josas, France. Electronic address: stephane.chaillou@inrae.fr.

Cooked ham production involves numerous steps shaping the microbial communities
of the final product, with consequences on spoilage metabolites production. To
identify the main factors driving the ecology of ham and its spoilage, we
designed a study encompassing five variables related to ham production: type of
storage during meat transportation, churning speed, drain-off time, slicing line 
and O2 packaging permeability. About 200 samples from the same facility were
obtained and characterized with respect to i) their microbiota based on gyrB
amplicon sequencing ii) their production of spoilage-related metabolites based on
E-Nose analysis and enzymatic assays. The slicing was the most critical step,
shaping two general types of microbiota according to the slicing line: one
dominated by Carnobacterium divergens and another one dominated by Leuconostoc
carnosum and Serratia proteamaculans. Regarding metabolites production, L.
carnosum was associated to d-lactic acid, ethanol and acetic acid production,
whereas Serratia proteamaculans was associated to acetic acid production. This
last species prevailed with highly O2-permeable packaging. Within a given slicing
line, campaign-based variations were observed, with Lactobacillus sakei,
Leuconostoc mesenteroides and Carnobacterium maltaromaticum prevalent in summer. 
L. sakei was associated with l-lactic acid production and C. maltaromaticum with 
formic and acetic acid productions.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103547 
PMID: 32539984 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare having no conflict of interest.

