
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Sep;202(7):1945-1955. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-01914-y. Epub 
2020 May 27.

Metatranscriptomic analysis of modified atmosphere packaged poultry meat enables 
prediction of Brochothrix thermosphacta and Carnobacterium divergens in situ
metabolism.

Höll L(1), Hilgarth M(1), Geissler AJ(1), Behr J(1)(2), Vogel RF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Lehrstuhl für Technische Mikrobiologie, Technische Universität München,
Gregor-Mendel-Straße 4, 85354, Freising, Germany.
(2)Leibniz-Institut für Lebensmittel-Systembiologie an der Technischen
Universität München, Lise-Meitner-Straße 34, 85354, Freising, Germany.
(3)Lehrstuhl für Technische Mikrobiologie, Technische Universität München,
Gregor-Mendel-Straße 4, 85354, Freising, Germany. rudi.vogel@tum.de.

In this study, in situ-expressed metabolic routes of Brochothrix (B.)
thermosphacta and Carnobacterium (C.) divergens were evaluated based on a
metatranscriptomic dataset from bacteria growing on MAP chicken meat (O2/CO2;
N2/CO2). Both species exhibited no (C. divergens) or minor transcription
regulation (B. thermosphacta) within their main metabolic routes in response to
different atmospheres. Both employ pathways related to glucose and ribose.
Gluconeogenesis from lipid-borne glycerol is active in the progressing lack of
carbohydrates. Pyruvate fates in both species comprise lactate, ethanol, acetate,
CO2, formate, C4-compounds and H2O2 (only B. thermosphacta). Both species express
genes for a minimal aerobic respiratory chain, but do not possess the genetic
setting for a functional citric acid cycle. While products of carbohydrate and
glycerol metabolism display mild to medium sensorial off-characteristics,
predicted end products of their amino acid metabolism comprise, e.g., isobutyrate
and isovalerate (B. thermosphacta) or cadaverine and tyramine (C. divergens) as
potent spoilage compounds.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-01914-y 
PMID: 32462213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

