
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Oct;147:104212. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104212. Epub 2020
Apr 25.

Correlation between chemical composition and antimicrobial properties of
essential oils against most common food pathogens and spoilers: In-vitro efficacy
and predictive modelling.

Bagheri L(1), Khodaei N(2), Salmieri S(1), Karboune S(3), Lacroix M(4).

Author information: 
(1)INRS Armand-Frappier, Health and Biotechnology Centre, Research Laboratories
in Sciences Applied to Food, Canadian Irradiation Centre, Institut des
Nutraceutiques et des Aliments Fonctionnels (INAF), 531, Boulevard des Prairies, 
Laval, Québec, H7V 1B, Canada.
(2)Department of Food Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Macdonald Campus,
McGill University, 21111 Lakeshore, Sainte Anne de Bellevue, Quebec, H9X 3V9,
Canada.
(3)Department of Food Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Macdonald Campus,
McGill University, 21111 Lakeshore, Sainte Anne de Bellevue, Quebec, H9X 3V9,
Canada. Electronic address: salwa.karboune@mcgill.ca.
(4)INRS Armand-Frappier, Health and Biotechnology Centre, Research Laboratories
in Sciences Applied to Food, Canadian Irradiation Centre, Institut des
Nutraceutiques et des Aliments Fonctionnels (INAF), 531, Boulevard des Prairies, 
Laval, Québec, H7V 1B, Canada. Electronic address: Monique.Lacroix@iaf.inrs.ca.

Using disk diffusion assay and broth microdilution, we evaluated the
antimicrobial activity of 38 commercially available essential oils (EOs) against 
24 food pathogens and spoilers. These including E. coli O157: H7 (3 types),
Listeria (3 types), Bacillus (2 types), Salmonella enterica (2 types),
Staphylococcus aureus (3 types), Clostridium tyrobutiricum, Pseudomonas
aeruginosa, Brochotrix thermosphacta, Campylobacter jejuni, Carnobacterium
divergens, Aspergillus (2 types), and Penicillium (4 types). Correlation between 
EOs' chemical composition and antimicrobial properties was studied using R
software. Moreover, statistical models representing the relationship were
generated using Design Expert®. The predictive models identified the chemical
attributes of EOs that drive their antimicrobial properties while providing an
understanding of their interactions. Thyme (Aldrich, Novotaste), cinnamon
(Aliksir, BSA), garlic (Novotaste), Mexican garlic blend N & A (Novotaste), and
oregano (BSA) were the strongest antimicrobial. The most sensitive pathogens were
P. solitum (MIC of 19.53 ppm) and L. monocytogenes (MIC of 39 ppm). The
correlation analysis showed that phenols and aldehydes had the strongest positive
effects on the antimicrobial properties followed by the sulfur containing
compounds and the esters; while the effects of monoterpenes and ketones were
negative. Different sensitivity of food pathogens to chemical families was
observed. For instance, phenols and aldehydes exhibited a linear inhibitory
effect on L. monocytogenes (LM1045, MIC), while sesquiterpene and ester showed a 
significant effect on S. aureus (ATCC 6538, MIC). The developed predictive models
are expected to predict the antimicrobial properties based on the chemical
families of essential oils.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104212 
PMID: 32344178 

