
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Sep 2. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004409. [Epub ahead
of print]

Cellulomonas citrea sp. nov., isolated from paddy soil.

Lee HJ(1)(2), Kim SY(1), Whang KS(2)(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology & Resources, Mokwon University, 88, Doanbuk-ro,
Seo-gu, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
(2)Institute of Microbial Ecology & Resources, Mokwon University, 88, Doanbuk-ro,
Seo-gu, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.

Two Gram-stain-positive, facultatively anaerobic, motile, aerobic, rod-shaped and
non-spore-forming actinobacteria, strains AO-9T and AO-18, were isolated from
paddy soil collected from Daejeon, Republic of Korea. Colonies were smooth,
lemon-yellow and circular and 0.5-0.8×2.0-2.4 µm in diameter after 3 days of
incubation at 28 °C on tryptic soy agar. Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA 
gene sequences revealed that strains AO-9T and AO-18 belonged to the genus
Cellulomonas, showing the highest sequence similarities to Cellulomonas marina
FXJ8.089T (96.6 %), Cellulomonas endophytica SYSUP0004T (96.5 %), Cellulomonas
gelida DSM 20111T (96.2 %), Cellulomonas uda DSM 20107T (96.1 %), Cellulomonas
rhizosphaerae NEAU-TCZ24T (96.1 %), Cellulomonas composti TR7-06T (96.0 %),
Cellulomonas persica JCM 18111T (96.0 %) and less than 96 % to other closely
related species. The DNA-DNA hybridization values between strains AO-9T and AO-18
were 87 %. The average nucleotide identity and digital DNA-DNA hybridization
values between strain AO-9T and type strains of related species of the genus
Cellulomonas were 84.0-85.8 % and 20.3-20.9 %, respectively. The major cellular
fatty acids are anteiso-C15:0 (49.9 %), C14:0 (12.9 %) and iso-C14:0 (12.1 %).
The predominant isoprenoid quinone was MK-9 (H4). The polar lipid profile
consists of diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol and one unidentified
lipid. The DNA G+C content was 72.9 mol%. Based on its distinctive phenotypic,
phylogenetic and chemotaxonomic characteristics, the two strains are considered
to represent novel species of the genus Cellulomonas, for which the name
Cellulomonas citrea sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is AO-9T (=KACC
19069T=NBRC 112523T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004409 
PMID: 32877326 

