
1. Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek. 2019 Nov;112(11):1623-1632. doi:
10.1007/s10482-019-01288-2. Epub 2019 Jun 19.

Cellulomonas aurantiaca sp. nov., isolated from a soil sample from a tangerine
field.

Kim SK(1), Kook M(2), Yan ZF(3), Trinh H(1), Zheng SD(1), Yang JE(4), Park SY(4),
Yi TH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oriental Medicinal Material and Processing, College of Life
Science, Kyung Hee University Global Campus, 1732 Deokyoungdae-ro, Giheung-gu,
Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, 446-701, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Food and Nutrition, Baewha Women's University, Seoul, 03039,
Republic of Korea.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, School of Biotechnology, 
Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.
(4)SD Biotechnologies Co., Ltd, Seoul Hightech Venture Center, 29, Gonghang-daero
61-gil, Gangseo-gu, Seoul, 07563, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Oriental Medicinal Material and Processing, College of Life
Science, Kyung Hee University Global Campus, 1732 Deokyoungdae-ro, Giheung-gu,
Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, 446-701, Republic of Korea. drhoo@khu.ac.kr.

A Gram-stain positive, facultatively aerobic, motile and rod-shaped bacterial
strain, designated THG-SMD2.3T, was isolated from a soil sample collected in a
tangerine field, Republic of Korea. According to the 16S rRNA gene sequence
comparisons, the isolate was identified as a member of the genus Cellulomonas and
to be closely related to Cellulomonas fimi ATCC 484T (98.5%), Cellulomonas
biazotea DSM 20112T (98.3%), Cellulomonas chitinilytica X.bu-bT (98.0%),
Cellulomonas xylanilytica XIL11T (97.2%), Cellulomonas humilata ATCC 25174T
(97.1%) and Cellulomonas composti TR7-06T (97.0%). The 16S rRNA gene sequence
similarities with other current species of the genus Cellulomonas were in the
range 95.4-96.6%. Catalase and oxidase tests were found to be positive. The DNA
G+C content was determined to be 73.0 mol%. DNA-DNA hybridization values between 
strain THG-SMD2.3T and C. fimi ATCC 484T, C. biazotea DSM 20112T, C.
chitinilytica X.bu-bT, C. xylanilytica XIL11T, C. humilata ATCC 25174T and C.
composti TR7-06T were 58.1 ± 1.6%, 56.7 ± 0.8%, 30.3 ± 1.6%, 22.8 ± 1.6%,
19.9 ± 1.6%, and 13.5 ± 3.0%, respectively. Strain THG-SMD2.3T was also found to 
be able to grow at 20-42 °C, at 0-3% NaCl and at pH 5.5-10. The major fatty acids
were identified as anteiso-C15:0, iso-C15:0, anteiso-C17:0 and iso-C14:0. The
predominant menaquinone was identified as tetrahydrogenated menaquinones with
nine isoprene units [MK-9(H4)]. The polar lipids were found to be
diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, two
unidentified aminolipids and two unidentified phospholipids. Based on these
phenotypic, genotypic and phylogenetic characterisations strain THG-SMD2.3T
(= KACC 19341T = CGMCC 1.16303T) is concluded to represent a novel species of the
genus Cellulomonas, for which the name Cellulomonas aurantiaca sp. nov. is
proposed.

DOI: 10.1007/s10482-019-01288-2 
PMID: 31218500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

