
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Sep 17. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004470. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Cerasibacillus terrae sp. nov., isolated from maize field, and emended
description of Cerasibacillus quisquiliarum Nakamura et al. 2004.

Lin SY(1), Tsai CF(1), Hameed A(1), Young CC(2)(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Soil and Environmental Sciences, College of Agriculture and
Natural Resources, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung City, Taiwan, ROC.
(2)Innovation and Development Center of Sustainable Agriculture, National Chung
Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, ROC.

A polyphasic taxonomic approach was used to characterize a Gram-stain-positive
bacterium, designated strain CC-CFT480T, isolated from soil sampled in a maize
field in Taiwan, ROC. Cells of strain CC-CFT480T were rod-shaped, motile with
polar flagella, catalase-positive and oxidase-positive. Optimal growth occurred
at 30 °С, pH 8 and 3 % NaCl. Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA genes
revealed a distinct taxonomic position attained by strain CC-CFT480T associated
with Cerasibacillus quisquiliarum (97.2 % sequence identity), Virgibacillus soli 
(95.7 %), Virgibacillus carmonensis (95.4 %) and Virgibacillus byunsanensis
(95.2 %), and lower sequence similarity values to other species. Average
nucleotide identity (ANI) and digital DNA-DNA hybridization (dDDH) values between
strain CC-CFT480T and C. quisquiliarum were 74.2 and 20.1 %, respectively. Strain
CC-CFT480T contained iso-C15:0, C16:1 ω7c alcohol and iso-C17:1 ω10c as the
predominant fatty acids. The polar lipid profile consisted of
diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, two
unknown aminophospholipids, one uncharacterized aminophospholipid and two unknown
phospholipids. The major polyamine was spermidine. The DNA G+C content was 34.8
mol% and the predominant quinone was menaquinone 7 (MK-7). Based on its distinct 
phylogenetic, phenotypic and chemotaxonomic traits together with results of
comparative 16S rRNA gene sequence, ANI and dDDH analyses, strain CC-CFT480T is
proposed to represent a novel Cerasibacillus species, for which the name
Cerasibacillus terrae sp. nov. (type strain CC-CFT480T=BCRC 81216T=JCM 33498T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004470 
PMID: 32941128 

