
1. Heliyon. 2020 Feb 22;6(2):e03454. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e03454. eCollection
2020 Feb.

Isolation of Chryseobacterium siluri sp. nov., from liver of diseased catfish
(Silurus asotus).

Oh WT(1), Jun JW(2), Giri SS(1), Yun S(1), Kim HJ(1), Kim SG(1), Kim SW(1), Han
SJ(1), Kwon J(1), Park SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Aquatic Biomedicine, College of Veterinary Medicine and Research
Institute for Veterinary Science, Seoul National University, Seoul 08826,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Aquaculture, Korea National College of Agriculture and
Fisheries, Jeonju 54874, Republic of Korea.

Yellow-pigmented, circular bacteria (strain SNU WT7) were isolated from the liver
of moribund eastern catfish (Silurus asotus). Our study focused on the taxonomic 
description of SNU WT7 using phylogenetic, phenotypic, and chemotaxonomic
analyses. The 16S rRNA gene sequence of the SNU WT7 strain was highly similar to 
that of Chryseobacterium haifense H38T (97.29% similarity), followed by
Chryseobacterium hominis P2K6T (97.22% similarity), while other species exhibited
similarity values of less than 97.0%. The genome of strain SNU WT7 displayed
average nucleotide identity and genome-to-genome distance values of 72.35% and
22.0%, respectively, which clearly indicated that the novel species was distant
from the other Chryseobacterium species, with its closest relative being
C. haifense H38T. Furthermore, the phenotypic characteristics, including acid
production from glucose, D-fructose, lactose, and maltose, of strain SNU WT 7
differed from those of C. haifense H38T. The major polar lipid of the strain was 
phosphatidylethanolamine, and several unidentified aminolipids and lipids were
also present. Similar to other Chryseobacterium species, the quinone system was
composed mainly of MK-6. The genome of SNU WT7 is 2,690,367 bp with a G + C
content of 43.6%. Taken together, our data indicate that the isolate SNU WT7
represents a novel species of the genus Chryseobacterium. Thus, we present the
name Chryseobacterium siluri sp. nov. for the novel type strain SNU WT7T (KCTC
72626, JCM 33707).

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e03454 
PMCID: PMC7036476
PMID: 32123769 

