
1. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2020 Mar;98:699-709. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2019.11.007. Epub
2019 Nov 11.

Identification and characterization of a novel galectin from the mud crab Scylla 
paramamosain.

Zhang Z(1), Zhang W(2), Mu C(3), Li R(4), Song W(4), Ye Y(4), Shi C(4), Liu L(4),
Wang H(4), Wang C(5).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Applied Marine Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Ningbo 
University, Ningbo, 315211, China; Collaborative Innovation Center for Zhejiang
Marine High-efficiency and Healthy Aquaculture, Ningbo, 315211, China.
(2)Collaborative Innovation Center for Zhejiang Marine High-efficiency and
Healthy Aquaculture, Ningbo, 315211, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Applied Marine Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Ningbo 
University, Ningbo, 315211, China. Electronic address: muchangkao@nbu.edu.cn.
(4)Key Laboratory of Applied Marine Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Ningbo 
University, Ningbo, 315211, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Applied Marine Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Ningbo 
University, Ningbo, 315211, China. Electronic address: wangchunlin@nbu.edu.cn.

Galectins are a family of β-galactoside-binding lectins that play key roles in
the invertebrate innate immunity system, but no galectin genes have been
identified in the mud crab (Scylla paramamosain) so far. The present study is the
first to clone a galectin gene (SpGal) from S. paramamosain, by the rapid
amplification of cDNA ends technique based on expressed sequence tags. The
full-length cDNA of SpGal was 3142 bp. Its open reading frame encoded a
polypeptide of 280 amino acids containing a GLECT/Gal-bind lectin domain and a
potential N-glycosylation site. The deduced amino acid sequence and multi-domain 
organization of SpGal were highly similar to those of invertebrate galectins, and
phylogenetic analysis showed that SpGal was closely related to galectin isolated 
from Portunus trituberculatus. The mRNA transcripts of SpGal were found to be
constitutively expressed in a wide range of tissues, with its expression level
being higher in the hepatopancreas, gill, and hemocytes. The mRNA expression
level of SpGal increased rapidly after the crabs were stimulated by Vibrio
alginolyticus, and the maximum expression appeared at 6 h after the challenge.
The lipopolysaccharide-binding ability of SpGal was dependent on its
concentration, and it also exhibited agglutination activity with three
Gram-negative (Aeromonas hydrophila, Chryseobacterium indologenes and Vibrio
alginolyticus) and three Gram-positive (Bacillus aquimaris, Staphylococcus aureus
and Micrococcus lysodeik) bacterial strains. In addition, hemagglutination
activity with rabbit erythrocytes was observed in the absence of d-galactose.
These results indicate that SpGal in S. paramamosain acts as a pattern
recognition receptor to recognize a broad spectrum of microbes. The findings
together indicate that SpGal plays an important role in the innate immune
mechanisms of S. paramamosain against pathogenic infection.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2019.11.007 
PMID: 31726099 

