
1. Microbiol Res. 2019 Nov;228:126302. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2019.126302. Epub 2019 
Jul 20.

Endophytic bacteria of desert cactus (Euphorbia trigonas Mill) confer drought
tolerance and induce growth promotion in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.).

Eke P(1), Kumar A(2), Sahu KP(3), Wakam LN(4), Sheoran N(3), Ashajyothi M(3),
Patel A(3), Fekam FB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Antimicrobial & Biocontrol Agents Unit (AmBcAU), Laboratory for
Phytobiochemistry and Medicinal Plants Studies, Department of Biochemistry,
Faculty of Science, University of Yaoundé I, P.O. Box: 812, Yaoundé, Cameroon.
(2)Division of Plant Pathology, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New 
Delhi, India. Electronic address: kumar@iari.res.in.
(3)Division of Plant Pathology, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New 
Delhi, India.
(4)Antimicrobial & Biocontrol Agents Unit (AmBcAU), Laboratory for
Phytobiochemistry and Medicinal Plants Studies, Department of Biochemistry,
Faculty of Science, University of Yaoundé I, P.O. Box: 812, Yaoundé, Cameroon;
Laboratory of Soil Microbiology, Department of Microbiology, Biotechnology
Centre, Nkolbisson, Yaoundé, Cameroon.

Endophytic bacteria isolated from cactus were characterized and assessed for
their capability to induce drought tolerance and growth promotion in tomato. A
total of 191-bacteria representing 13-genera and 18-species were isolated from
wild cactus, Euphorbia trigonas. Bacillus (58), Lysinibacillus (36), Enterobacter
(29), Stenotrophomonas (18), Lelliottia (12) and Pseudomonas (12) were the most
represented genera. 16S rDNA sequence (>1400-bp) comparison placed the bacterial 
isolates with Bacillus xiamenensis; Bacillus megaterium; Bacillus cereus;
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens; Bacillus velezensis; Brevibacillus brevis;
Lysinibacillus fusiformis; Enterobacter cloacae; Lelliottia nimipressuralis;
Proteus penneri; Sphingobacterium multivorum; Klebsiella pneumoniae; Pseudomonas 
putida; Pseudomonas aeruginosa; Stenotrophomonas maltophilia; Citrobacter
freundii; Chryseobacterium indologenes and Paracoccus sp. Bacillus xiamenensis
was identified for the first time as plant endophyte. Upon bacterization, the
endophytes triggered germination and growth promotion in tomato as indicated by
118 % and 52 % more root-biomass under drought-free and drought-induced
conditions, respectively. Bacillus amyloliquefaciens CBa_RA37 and B. megaterium
RR10 displayed broad spectrum endophytism in tomato. Bacterization of tomato with
cactus endophyte showed altered oxidative status, stomatal and photosystem II
functioning, internal leaf temperature and relative water content suggestive of
physiological de-stressing from moisture stress. Activity of oxidative stress
enzymes such as guaiacol peroxidase and catalase was also indicative of endophyte
assisted de-stressing of tomato. Re-irrigation on 20-days of drought infliction
showed 86.9% recovery of B. amyloliquefaciens CBa_RA37 primed tomato when
non-primed plantlets succumbed. The cactus endophytic bacterial strain B.
amyloliquefaciens CBa_RA37 showed promise for low-cost, efficient and
environmentally friendly bio-inoculant technology to mitigate drought in arid
zones of Asian and African continents.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2019.126302 
PMID: 31442862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

