
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Jan;70(1):93-99. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003716.

Chryseobacterium candidae sp. nov., isolated from a yeast (Candida tropicalis).

B I(1), G K(1), N S(1), A S(2), Ch S(1), Ch V R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, School of Life Sciences, University of
Hyderabad, P.O. Central University, Hyderabad 500046, India.
(2)Bacterial Discovery Laboratory, Centre for Environment, Institute of Science
and Technology, J. N. T. University Hyderabad, Kukatpally, Hyderabad 500085,
India.

A Gram-stain-negative, rod shaped, non-motile, aerobic bacterium (strain JC507T) 
was isolated from a yeast (Candida tropicalis JY101). Strain JC507T was oxidase- 
and catalase-positive. Complete 16S rRNA gene sequence comparison data indicated 
that strain JC507T was a member of the genus Chryseobacterium and was closely
related to Chryseobacterium indologenes NBRC 14944T (98.7 %), followed by
Chryseobacterium arthrosphaerae CC-VM-7T (98.6 %), Chryseobacterium gleum ATCC
35910T (98.5 %) and less than 98.5 % to other species of the genus
Chryseobacterium.The genomic DNA G+C content of strain JC507T was 36.0 mol%.
Strain JC507T had phosphatidylethanolamine, four unidentified amino lipids and
four unidentified lipids. MK-6 was the only respiratory quinone. The major fatty 
acids (>10 %) were anteiso-C11 : 0, iso-C15 : 0 and iso-C17 : 03OH. The average
nucleotide identity and in silico DNA-DNA hybridization values between strain
JC507T and C. indologenes NBRC 14944T, C. arthrosphaerae CC-VM-7T and C. gleum
ATCC 35910T were 80.2, 83.0 and 87.0 % and 24, 26.7 and 32.7 %, respectively. The
results of phenotypic, phylogenetic and chemotaxonomic analyses support the
inclusion of strain JC507T as a representative of a new species of the genus
Chryseobacterium, for which the name Chryseobacteriumcandidae sp. nov. is
proposed. The type strain is JC507T (=KCTC 52928T=MCC 4072T=NBRC 113872T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003716 
PMID: 31535961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

