
1. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 Oct;39(10):1845-1853. doi:
10.1007/s10096-020-03909-5. Epub 2020 May 6.

Implementation of the eazyplex® CSF direct panel assay for rapid laboratory
diagnosis of bacterial meningitis: 32-month experience at a tertiary care
university hospital.

D'Inzeo T(1)(2), Menchinelli G(2), De Angelis G(2), Fiori B(1)(2), Liotti FM(2), 
Morandotti GA(1), Sanguinetti M(3)(4), Posteraro B(2)(5), Spanu T(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze di Laboratorio e Infettivologiche, Fondazione
Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Scienze Biotecnologiche di base, Cliniche Intensivologiche e
Perioperatorie, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Rome, Italy.
(3)Dipartimento di Scienze di Laboratorio e Infettivologiche, Fondazione
Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
maurizio.sanguinetti@unicatt.it.
(4)Dipartimento di Scienze Biotecnologiche di base, Cliniche Intensivologiche e
Perioperatorie, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Rome, Italy.
maurizio.sanguinetti@unicatt.it.
(5)Dipartimento di Scienze Gastroenterologiche, Endocrino-Metaboliche e
Nefro-Urologiche, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli IRCCS, Rome,
Italy.

We aimed to report a 32-month laboratory experience with the eazyplex® CSF direct
panel assay for the rapid diagnosis of meningitis due to six most common
bacterial species (Escherichia coli, Haemophilus influenzae, Listeria
monocytogenes, Neisseria meningitidis, Streptococcus agalactiae, and
Streptococcus pneumoniae). We included all cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from
patients admitted with a clinical suspicion of meningitis/encephalitis between
May 2016 and December 2018 at our hospital. In addition to the eazyplex® assay,
both Gram stain microscopy and culture were performed, and results were confirmed
with 16S rRNA PCR/sequencing. Patients' demographics and relevant clinical
information were collected. Of 135 studied patients, 44 (32.6%) had a
microbiologically documented diagnosis of meningitis. Overall, we identified 21
S. pneumoniae, 10 N. meningitidis, 6 L. monocytogenes, 3 E. coli, 2 Streptococcus
pyogenes, 1 S. agalactiae, and 1 Citrobacter koseri as aetiological agents. The
eazyplex® assay allowed identification in 40 (90.9%) cases, with four not
identified cases due to microorganisms not included in the panel at the time of
testing. Thirty-two (72.7%) cases had positive culture results, whereas 28
(63.6%) cases had positive Gram stain results. Notably, combining Gram stain and 
eazyplex® assay allowed identification in 100% of cases. After notification of
rapid results, physicians modified the empiric antibiotic therapy, which became
appropriate in three patients (all with L. monocytogenes meningitis). The
eazyplex® CSF panel assay worked better than culture in detecting the most common
agents of bacterial meningitis and accelerated the diagnosis leading to timely
initiation or continuation of appropriate antibiotic therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-020-03909-5 
PMID: 32377878 

