
1. Antimicrob Resist Infect Control. 2020 Sep 23;9(1):155. doi:
10.1186/s13756-020-00816-4.

Epidemiology and risk factors of rectal colonization of carbapenemase-producing
Enterobacteriaceae among high-risk patients from ICU and HSCT wards in a
university hospital.

Yan L(1), Sun J(2), Xu X(2), Huang S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, the First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, No.1 Friendship Road, Yuzhong District, Chongqing, 400016,
China. cqyanli2000@126.com.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, the First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, No.1 Friendship Road, Yuzhong District, Chongqing, 400016,
China.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, the First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, No.1 Friendship Road, Yuzhong District, Chongqing, 400016,
China. sfhuang@hospital.cqmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Nosocomial carbapenemase-producing Enterobacterieceae (CPE)
infections constitute a major global health concern and are associated with
increased morbidity and mortality. Rectal colonization with CPE is a risk factor 
for bacterial translocation leading to subsequent endogenous CPE infections. This
prospective observational study was aimed to investigate the prevalence and
epidemiology of rectal colonization of CPE, the carbapenemase genotypes, and to
identify the independent risk factors for the acquisition of CPE colonization in 
high-risk patients from ICU and HSCT wards in a university hospital in China.
METHODS: In a prospective cohort study, 150 fecal samples from rectal swabs were 
consecutively obtained for inpatients from the intensive care unit (ICU) and
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) wards from November 2018 to May
2019, and screening test for CPE was conducted by using prepared in-house trypsin
soybean broth (TSB) selective media and MacConkey agar. Antimicrobial
susceptibility was determined by the broth microdilution method and carbapenemase
genes were characterized by both the GeneXpert Carba-R and PCR for blaKPC,
blaNDM, blaIMP, blaVIM and blaOXA. Multi-locus sequence typing (MLST) was
employed to characterize the genetic relationships among the
carbapenemase-producing K. Pneumonia (CPKP) isolates. In order to further
investigate the risk factors and clinical outcomes of CPE colonization, a
prospective case-control study was also performed.
RESULTS: Twenty-six suspected CPE strains, including 17â€‰Klebsiella pneumoniae, 6 
Escherichia coli, 1 Citrobacter freundii, 1 Enterobacter Kobe, and 1 Raoultella
ornithinolytica, were identified in 25 non-duplicated rectal swab samples from 25
patients, with a carriage rate of 16.67% (25/150). Through GeneXpert Carba-R and 
subsequent PCR and sequencing, all the suspected CPE isolates were identified to 
be positive for the carbapenemase genes, of which 17 were blaKPC-carriers, and
another 9 were blaNDM-producers. MLST designated all the CPKP isolates to be ST11
clone. Multivariate analysis indicated that urinary system diseases, operation of
bronchoscopy, and combined use of antibiotics were independent risk factors for
acquiring CPE colonization in high-risk patients from the ICU and HSCT wards.
CONCLUSIONS: This study revealed a high prevalence of rectal CPE colonization in 
high-risk patients from ICU and HSCT wards, and a predominant colonization of the
KPC-producing K. pneumoniae clone ST11. Stricter infection control measures are
urgently needed to limit the dissemination of CPE strains, especially in patients
who were afflicted by urinary system diseases, have underwent bronchoscopy, and
were previously exposed to combined antibiotic use.

DOI: 10.1186/s13756-020-00816-4 
PMCID: PMC7513325
PMID: 32967718 

