
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Sep;70(9):4951-4959. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004364.

Intestinirhabdus alba gen. nov., sp. nov., a novel genus of the family
Enterobacteriaceae, isolated from the gut of plastic-eating larvae of the
Coleoptera insect Zophobas atratus.

Xu Z(1), Xia M(1), Huo YX(2)(1), Yang Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of
Technology, Beijing 100081, PR China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Molecular Medicine and Biotherapy, Beijing Institute of
Technology, Beijing 100081, PR China.

A bacterial strain, BIT-B35T, was isolated from the gut of plastic-eating larvae 
of the Coleoptera insect Zophobas atratus. Its taxonomic position was determined 
by using a polyphasic approach. Cells were white-pigmented, Gram-stain-negative, 
motile short rods with terminal flagella. The 16S rRNA gene sequence (1411 bp) of
strain BIT-B35T showed highest similarity (98.1%) to Escherichia fergusonii ATCC 
35469T and Citrobacter koseri LMG 5519T. The results of phylogenetic analyses,
based on the 16S rRNA gene, concatenated sequences of seven housekeeping genes
(atpD, gyrB, infB, rpoB, pyrG, fusA and leuS) and genome sequences, placed strain
BIT-B35T in a separate lineage among the family of Enterobacteriaceae. The major 
fatty acids were C16 : 0, C17 : 0 cyclo and C19 : 0 cyclo ω8c. The genomic DNA
G+C content of strain BIT-B35T was 57.1 mol%. The chemotaxonomic data plus
results of physiological and biochemical tests also distinguished strain BIT-B35T
from members of other genera within the family Enterobacteriaceae. Therefore,
strain BIT-B35T is considered to represent a novel species of a novel genus
within the family Enterobacteriaceae, for which the name Intestinirhabdus alba
gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is BIT-B35T (=CGMCC
1.17042T=KCTC 72448T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004364 
PMID: 32744988 

