
1. BMC Microbiol. 2020 Jan 6;20(1):5. doi: 10.1186/s12866-019-1668-3.

In vitro synergy between sodium deoxycholate and furazolidone against
enterobacteria.

Le VVH(1), Olivera C(1), Spagnuolo J(1)(2), Davies IG(3), Rakonjac J(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Fundamental Sciences, Massey University, Palmerston North, New
Zealand.
(2)Present Address: Department of Biomedicine, University Hospital Basel, 4031,
Basel, Switzerland.
(3)New Zealand Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Palmerston North, New Zealand.
(4)School of Fundamental Sciences, Massey University, Palmerston North, New
Zealand. j.rakonjac@massey.ac.nz.

BACKGROUND: Antimicrobial combinations have been proven as a promising approach
in the confrontation with multi-drug resistant bacterial pathogens. In the
present study, we identify and characterize a synergistic interaction of
broad-spectrum nitroreductase-activated prodrugs 5-nitrofurans, with a secondary 
bile salt, Sodium Deoxycholate (DOC) in growth inhibition and killing of
enterobacteria.
RESULTS: Using checkerboard assay, we show that combination of nitrofuran
furazolidone (FZ) and DOC generates a profound synergistic effect on growth
inhibition in several enterobacterial species including Escherichia coli,
Salmonella enterica, Citrobacter gillenii and Klebsiella pneumoniae. The
Fractional Inhibitory Concentration Index (FICI) for DOC-FZ synergy ranges from
0.125 to 0.35 that remains unchanged in an ampicillin-resistant E. coli strain
containing a Î²-lactamase-producing plasmid. Findings from the time-kill assay
further highlight the synergy with respect to bacterial killing in E. coli and
Salmonella. We further characterize the mechanism of synergy in E. coli K12,
showing that disruption of the tolC or acrA genes that encode components of
multidrug efflux pumps causes, respectively, a complete or partial loss, of the
DOC-FZ synergy. This finding indicates the key role of TolC-associated efflux
pumps in the DOC-FZ synergy. Overexpression of Nitric Oxide-detoxifying enzyme
Hmp results in a three-fold increase in FICI for DOC-FZ interaction, suggesting a
role of nitric oxide in the synergy. We further demonstrate that DOC-FZ synergy
is largely independent of NfsA and NfsB, the two major activation enzymes of the 
nitrofuran prodrugs.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is to our knowledge the first report of
nitrofuran-deoxycholate synergy against Gram-negative bacteria, offering
potential applications in antimicrobial therapeutics. The mechanism of DOC-FZ
synergy involves FZ-mediated inhibition of TolC-associated efflux pumps that
normally remove DOC from bacterial cells. One possible route contributing to that
effect is via FZ-mediated nitric oxide production.

DOI: 10.1186/s12866-019-1668-3 
PMCID: PMC6945529
PMID: 31906851 

