
1. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 Aug 17. doi: 10.1007/s10096-020-04003-6.
[Epub ahead of print]

Citrobacter telavivum sp. nov. with chromosomal mcr-9 from hospitalized patients.

Ribeiro TG(1), Izdebski R(2), Urbanowicz P(2), Carmeli Y(3), Gniadkowski M(2),
Peixe L(4).

Author information: 
(1)UCIBIO-REQUIMTE, Laboratório de Microbiologia, Faculdade de Farmácia,
Universidade do Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(2)Department of Molecular Microbiology, National Medicines Institute, Warsaw,
Poland.
(3)Division of Epidemiology, Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Centre, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
(4)UCIBIO-REQUIMTE, Laboratório de Microbiologia, Faculdade de Farmácia,
Universidade do Porto, Porto, Portugal. lpeixe@ff.up.pt.

Strains 6105T and 6106, recovered from colonized patients in a hospital in
Tel-Aviv, Israel, were compared with currently known species of the genus
Citrobacter by a polyphasic taxonomic approach. Strains were characterized by
whole-genome sequencing, 16S rRNA and recN gene sequencing, multilocus sequence
analysis (MLSA), average nucleotide identity (ANI), Genome-to-Genome Distance
Calculator (GGDC), and biochemical tests. The location and genetic surrounding of
antibiotic resistance genes were investigated, and antibiotic susceptibility
profiles were determined by broth microdilution or agar dilution methods.
Phylogenetic analysis based on recN and MLSA revealed that both strains formed a 
distinct cluster from all currently recognized species. The ANI and GGDC were
90.7% and 54.3% with Citrobacter farmeri, respectively. The ability to metabolize
various compounds also differentiated both strains from closely related
Citrobacter species. Chromosomes of the isolates contained locus encoding a novel
class A β-lactamase (TEL-1; 90.5% amino acid identity with CdiA of Citrobacter
koseri) plus a LysR-like transcriptional regulator (TEL-R) and an ~ 25.5-kb mcr-9
mosaic region. The direct mcr-9 context matched with those previously identified 
in several plasmids and chromosomes of diverse Enterobacteriaceae, yet similarity
with the plasmidic loci extended further. Untypeable plasmids, pCTEL-2 (~ 235 kb)
and pCTEL-1 (~ 114 kb), devoid of resistance genes, were identified in the
strains. The isolates were non-susceptible to β-lactams. The name Citrobacter
telavivum sp. nov. is proposed, with 6105T (CECT 9989T or DSM 110286T) as the
type strain. C. telavivum may represent a bacterial species adapting to hospital 
settings, able to disseminate and acquire antimicrobial resistance genes.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-020-04003-6 
PMID: 32808110 

