
1. Front Microbiol. 2019 Dec 12;10:2824. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02824. eCollection 
2019.

Dissemination and Comparison of Genetic Determinants of mcr-Mediated Colistin
Resistance in Enterobacteriaceae via Retailed Raw Meat Products.

Gelbíčová T(1), Baráková A(1)(2), Florianová M(1), Jamborová I(3), Zelendová
M(3)(4), Pospíšilová L(1), Koláčková I(1), Karpíšková R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bacteriology, Veterinary Research Institute, Brno, Czechia.
(2)Faculty of Science, Masaryk University, Brno, Czechia.
(3)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Veterinary and Pharmaceutical
Sciences Brno, Brno, Czechia.
(4)Central European Institute of Technology, University of Veterinary and
Pharmaceutical Sciences Brno, Brno, Czechia.

The global food chain may significantly promote the dissemination of bacteria
resistant to antibiotics around the world. This study was aimed at determining
the prevalence and genetic characteristics of Enterobacteriaceae with
mcr-mediated colistin (CT) resistance in retail meat of different origins.
Bacteria of the Enterobacteriaceae family carrying the mcr-1 gene were detected
in 21% (18/86) of the examined samples, especially in turkey meat and liver
originating from EU and non-EU countries (19%) and in rabbit meat imported from
China (2%). The examined samples of the meat and liver of chicken and other
poultry and of pork and beef were negative for the presence of bacteria carrying 
the mcr-1 to mcr-5 genes. A huge number of isolates belonging to Escherchia coli 
(n = 54), Klebsiella pneumoniae (n = 6), and Citrobacter braakii (n = 1) carrying
the mcr-1 gene were obtained. Despite the high heterogeneity of the tested
isolates, the mcr-1 gene was localized on only three types of plasmids (IncX4,
IncHI2, and IncI2). The most frequent type of plasmid was IncX4, which carried
the mcr-1 gene in 77% of E. coli and K. pneumoniae isolates from turkey meat and 
liver samples from the Czechia, Germany, Poland, and Brazil. Our findings
indicate highly probable interspecies transfer of IncX4 and IncI2 plasmids within
one meat sample. The co-resistance of plasmid-mediated CT resistance encoded by
the mcr-1 and ESBL genes was detected in 18% of the isolates. Another noteworthy 
finding was the fosA3 gene coding for fosfomycin resistance in a
multidrug-resistant isolate of E. coli from rabbit meat imported from China. The 
observed high level of Enterobacteriaceae with plasmids carrying the mcr-1 gene
in retail meat reflects the need for Europe-wide monitoring of mcr-mediated CT
resistance throughout the whole food chain.

Copyright © 2019 Gelbíčová, Baráková, Florianová, Jamborová, Zelendová,
Pospíšilová, Koláčková and Karpíšková.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02824 
PMCID: PMC6920100
PMID: 31921017 

