
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Aug 1;8(8). pii: E1172. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8081172.

Expression of a Shiga-Like Toxin during Plastic Colonization by Two
Multidrug-Resistant Bacteria, Aeromonas hydrophila RIT668 and Citrobacter
freundii RIT669, Isolated from Endangered Turtles (Clemmys guttata).

Thomas SG(1), Glover MA(1), Parthasarathy A(1), Wong NH(1), Shipman PA(1), Hudson
AO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Thomas H. Gosnell School of Life Sciences, Rochester Institute of Technology, 
Rochester, NY 14623, USA.

Aeromonas hydrophila RIT668 and Citrobacter freundii RIT669 were isolated from
endangered spotted turtles (Clemmys guttata). Whole-genome sequencing, annotation
and phylogenetic analyses of the genomes revealed that the closest relative of
RIT668 is A. hydrophila ATCC 7966 and Citrobacter portucalensis A60 for RIT669.
Resistome analysis showed that A. hydrophila and C. freundii harbor six and 19
different antibiotic resistance genes, respectively. Both bacteria colonize
polyethylene and polypropylene, which are common plastics, found in the
environment and are used to fabricate medical devices. The expression of six
biofilm-related genes-biofilm peroxide resistance protein (bsmA), biofilm
formation regulatory protein subunit R (bssR), biofilm formation regulatory
protein subunit S (bssS), biofilm formation regulator (hmsP), toxin-antitoxin
biofilm protein (tabA) and transcriptional activator of curli operon (csgD)-and
two virulence factors-Vi antigen-related gene (viaB) and Shiga-like toxin
(slt-II)-was investigated by RT-PCR. A. hydrophila displayed a >2-fold increase
in slt-II expression in cells adhering to both polymers, C. freundii adhering on 
polyethylene displayed a >2-fold, and on polypropylene a >6-fold upregulation of 
slt-II. Thus, the two new isolates are potential pathogens owing to their drug
resistance, surface colonization and upregulation of a slt-II-type diarrheal
toxin on polymer surfaces.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8081172 
PMCID: PMC7465454
PMID: 32752245 

