
1. Water Res. 2020 Aug 15;181:115928. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2020.115928. Epub 2020
May 14.

A comparison of photolytic, photochemical and photocatalytic processes for
disinfection of recirculation aquaculture systems (RAS) streams.

Moreno-Andrés J(1), Rueda-Márquez JJ(2), Homola T(3), Vielma J(4), Moríñigo
MÁ(5), Mikola A(6), Sillanpää M(7), Acevedo-Merino A(8), Nebot E(8), Levchuk
I(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Technologies, Faculty of Marine and Environmental 
Sciences, INMAR-Marine Research Institute, CEIMAR- International Campus of
Excellence of the Sea, University of Cadiz, Spain; Grupo de Procesos de Oxidación
Avanzada, Departamento de Ingeniería Textil y Papelera, Universitat Politècnica
de València, Campus de Alcoy, Alcoy, Spain. Electronic address:
javier.moreno@uca.es.
(2)Department of Separation Science, School of Engineering Science,
Lappeenranta-Lahti University of Technology LUT, Sammonkatu 12, 50130 Mikkeli,
Finland.
(3)R&D Center for Low-Cost Plasma and Nanotechnology Surface Modifications
(CEPLANT), Department of Physical Electronics, Faculty of Science, Masaryk
University, Kotlářská 267/2, 611 37, Brno, Czech Republic.
(4)Natural Resources Institute Finland, Survontie 9A, 40500, Jyväskylä, Finland.
(5)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Málaga, Spain.
(6)Water and Wastewater Engineering Research Group, School of Engineering, Aalto 
University, PO Box 15200, FI-00076, Aalto, Finland.
(7)School of Civil Engineering and Surveying, Faculty of Health, Engineering and 
Sciences, University of Southern Queensland, West Street, Toowoomba, 4350 QLD,
Australia; Institute of Research and Development, Faculty of Environment and
Chemical Engineering, Duy Tan University, Da Nang 550000, Vietnam.
(8)Department of Environmental Technologies, Faculty of Marine and Environmental 
Sciences, INMAR-Marine Research Institute, CEIMAR- International Campus of
Excellence of the Sea, University of Cadiz, Spain.

The development of technologically advanced recirculation aquaculture systems
(RAS) implies the reuse of water in a high recirculation rate (>90%). One of the 
most important phases for water management in RAS involves water disinfection in 
order to avoid proliferation of potential pathogens and related fish diseases.
Accordingly, different approaches have been assessed in this study by performing 
a comparison of photolytic (UV-LEDs) at different wavelengths (λ = 262, 268 and
262 + 268 nm), photochemical (UV-LEDs/H2O2, UV-LEDs/HSO5- and UV-LEDs/S2O82-) and
photocatalytic (TiO2/SiO2/UV-LEDs and ZnO/SiO2/UV-LEDs) processes for the
disinfection of water in RAS streams. Different laboratory tests were performed
in batch scale with real RAS stream water and naturally occurring bacteria
(Aeromonas hydrophyla and Citrobacter gillenii) as target microorganisms.
Regarding photolytic processes, higher inactivation rates were obtained by
combining λ262+268 in front of single wavelengths. Photochemical processes showed
higher efficiencies by comparison with a single UV-C process, especially at
10 mg L-1 of initial oxidant dose. The inactivation kinetic rate constant was
improved in the range of 15-38%, with major efficiency for
UV/H2O2 ∼ UV/HSO5- > UV/S2O82-. According to photocatalytic tests, higher
efficiencies were obtained by improving the inactivation kinetic rate constant up
to 55% in comparison with a single UV-C process. Preliminary cost estimation was 
conducted for all tested disinfection methods. Those results suggest the
potential application of UV-LEDs as promoter of different photochemical and
photocatalytic processes, which are able to enhance disinfection in particular
cases, such as the aquaculture industry.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2020.115928 
PMID: 32504908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

