
1. Bioresour Technol. 2020 Aug;309:123327. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123327. Epub
2020 Apr 8.

Tunable production of succinic acid at elevated pressures of CO2 in a high
pressure gas fermentation reactor.

Amulya K(1), Kopperi H(2), Venkata Mohan S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Bioengineering and Environmental Sciences (BEES) Lab, Department of Energy and
Environmental Engineering, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology
(CSIR-IICT), Hyderabad 500 007, India; Academy of Scientific and Innovative
Research (AcSIR), CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT)
Campus, Hyderabad 500 007, India.
(2)Bioengineering and Environmental Sciences (BEES) Lab, Department of Energy and
Environmental Engineering, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology
(CSIR-IICT), Hyderabad 500 007, India.
(3)Bioengineering and Environmental Sciences (BEES) Lab, Department of Energy and
Environmental Engineering, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology
(CSIR-IICT), Hyderabad 500 007, India; Academy of Scientific and Innovative
Research (AcSIR), CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT)
Campus, Hyderabad 500 007, India. Electronic address: svmohan@iict.res.in.

Production of bio-based alternative of succinic acid (SA) has been growing due to
the awareness on environmental advantages it offers, such as CO2 sequestration.
Current study focuses on evaluating the impact of different CO2 partial pressures
(0.6, 0.8, 1, 2 bar) on SA production and yield as well as on other parameters
like acids profile and CO2 fixation rate in Citrobacter amalonaticus. Increasing 
partial pressure to 2 bar enhanced SA production and maximum of 14.86 gL-1 was
achieved with a productivity of 0.36 gL-1h-1 and yield of 52.10%. Varying partial
pressures depicted significant influence on total acids profile, where at lower
pressures (0.6 bar) lactic (5.6 gL-1) and acetic acids (4.1 gL-1) became dominant
products, while concentration of SA was 2.07 gL-1, by the end of cycle. The
desirable effect of moderately elevated pressures for converting CO2 to platform 
chemicals can be a potential strategy in overcoming current challenges related to
CO2 abatement.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123327 
PMID: 32330802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

