
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Jan 16;21(2). pii: E580. doi: 10.3390/ijms21020580.

Bacteria from the Midgut of Common Cockchafer (Melolontha melolontha L.) Larvae
Exhibiting Antagonistic Activity Against Bacterial Symbionts of Entomopathogenic 
Nematodes: Isolation and Molecular Identification.

Skowronek M(1), Sajnaga E(1), Pleszczyńska M(2), Kazimierczak W(1), Lis M(1),
Wiater A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biocontrol, Application and Production of EPN, Centre for
Interdisciplinary Research, Faculty of Biotechnology and Environmental Sciences, 
John Paul II Catholic University of Lublin, ul. Konstantynów 1J, 20-708 Lublin,
Poland.
(2)Department of Industrial and Environmental Microbiology, Faculty of Biology
and Biotechnology, Maria Curie-Skłodowska University, ul. Akademicka 19, 20-033
Lublin, Poland.

The mechanisms of action of the complex including entomopathogenic nematodes of
the genera Steinernema and Heterorhabditis and their mutualistic partners, i.e., 
bacteria Xenorhabdus and Photorhabdus, have been well explained, and the
nematodes have been commercialized as biological control agents against many soil
insect pests. However, little is known regarding the nature of the relationships 
between these bacteria and the gut microbiota of infected insects. In the present
study, 900 bacterial isolates that were obtained from the midgut samples of
Melolontha melolontha larvae were screened for their antagonistic activity
against the selected species of the genera Xenorhabdus and Photorhabdus. Twelve
strains exhibited significant antibacterial activity in the applied tests. They
were identified based on 16S rRNA and rpoB, rpoD, or recA gene sequences as
Pseudomonas chlororaphis, Citrobacter murliniae, Acinetobacter calcoaceticus,
Chryseobacterium lathyri, Chryseobacterium sp., Serratia liquefaciens, and
Serratia sp. The culture filtrate of the isolate P. chlororaphis MMC3 L3 04
exerted the strongest inhibitory effect on the tested bacteria. The results of
the preliminary study that are presented here, which focused on interactions
between the insect gut microbiota and mutualistic bacteria of entomopathogenic
nematodes, show that bacteria inhabiting the gut of insects might play a key role
in insect resistance to entomopathogenic nematode pressure.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21020580 
PMCID: PMC7013910
PMID: 31963214 

