
1. Environ Health Insights. 2020 Jul 14;14:1178630220938414. doi:
10.1177/1178630220938414. eCollection 2020.

Making a Case for Infection Control at Public Places of Convenience in Accra,
Ghana.

Donkor ES(1), S Anyen NE(1), Akumwena A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Ghana Medical School, Accra,
Ghana.

In Ghana, environmental hygiene remains a major problem and infection control
measures are hardly practised, particularly outside of the hospital. To provide
evidence for infection control measures at public places of convenience in Accra 
(capital city of Ghana), this study was performed. The aim of the study was to
evaluate microbial contamination of door handles at public places of convenience 
in Accra and assess the public health risk. A total of 183 swab specimens were
collected aseptically from door handles of public places of convenience of shops,
schools, hospitals, lorry stations, churches, and markets. The samples were
cultured on bacteriological media, and the isolated organisms were identified.
The most prevalent bacterial agent isolated was Bacillus spp. (55.7%), followed
by Staphylococcus aureus (20.2%), coagulase-negative staphylococcus spp. (17.1%),
Citrobacter freundii (6.0%), Citrobacter koseri (4.4%), and Salmonella Paratyphi 
A (3.8%). Although in low prevalence, a wide range of enteric bacteria were
isolated from door handles, accounting for 12 of the 16 isolated organisms. In
conclusion, door handles of places of convenience in Accra harbour several
pathogenic microorganisms, especially enteric organisms. This study highlights
the need for proper disinfection of door handles of places of convenience in
Accra as well as handwashing after visiting such places.

Â© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1177/1178630220938414 
PMCID: PMC7361476
PMID: 32704231 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interests:The
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.

