
1. mSphere. 2020 Apr 8;5(2). pii: e00080-20. doi: 10.1128/mSphere.00080-20.

Early OXA-48-Producing Enterobacterales Isolates Recovered in a Spanish Hospital 
Reveal a Complex Introduction Dominated by Sequence Type 11 (ST11) and ST405
Klebsiella pneumoniae Clones.

Gijón D(1)(2), Tedim AP(1)(3), Valverde A(1)(4), Rodríguez I(1)(3), Morosini
MI(1)(2), Coque TM(1)(3), Manrique M(5), Pareja E(5), Tobes R(5), Ruiz-Garbajosa 
P(1)(2), Cantón R(6)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Microbiología, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal and Instituto 
Ramón y Cajal de Investigación Sanitaria (IRYCIS), Madrid, Spain.
(2)Spanish Network for Research in Infectious Diseases (REIPI), Instituto de
Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Epidemiología y Salud Pública
(CIBER-ESP), Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Centro de Vigilancia Sanitaria Veterinaria (VISAVET), Universidad Complutense,
Madrid, Spain.
(5)Oh no sequences! Research Group, Era7 Bioinformatics, Granada, Spain.
(6)Servicio de Microbiología, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal and Instituto 
Ramón y Cajal de Investigación Sanitaria (IRYCIS), Madrid, Spain
rafael.canton@salud.madrid.org.

Carbapenemase-producing Enterobacterales (CPE) have become an important public
health concern. In our hospital, VIM enzymes were first detected in 2005,
Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC) enzymes in 2009, and OXA-48 enzymes in 
2012. We assess the population biology of the first OXA-48-producing
Enterobacterales isolates recovered in our hospital (2012 to 2013) where
infections by other carbapenemases had been endemic for several years. Over a
21-month period, 71 isolates (61 Klebsiella pneumoniae, 5 Escherichia coli, 2
Klebsiella aerogenes, and 1 each of Enterobacter cloacae, Klebsiella oxytoca, and
Citrobacter amalonaticus) recovered from clinical and surveillance specimens from
57 patients (22.8% nonhospitalized) were investigated for OXA-48-like-producing
enzymes. Analyses for characterization and determination of the location of the
bla OXA-48 gene, plasmid transferability, sequence, and clonal relatedness were
performed. Most of the isolates also coproduced CTX-M-15 (57/71, 80.3%) and/or
VIM-1 (7/71, 9.8%). K. pneumoniae was predominantly identified as sequence type
11 (ST11) (63.4%) and ST405 (9.8%) and E. coli as ST540, ST1406, ST3163, and
ST4301. The bla OXA-48 gene was part of Tn1999.2 located at the tir gene of
plasmids (ca. ≥50 kb) of the IncL/M group, also carrying bla VIM-1 and bla
CTX-M-15 genes. We selected one ST11 K. pneumoniae isolate for whole-genome
sequencing in which we studied the plasmid containing the bla OXA-48 gene. This
plasmid was compared with indexed plasmids existing in NCBI database by the use
of BRIG and MAUVE. Our data suggest a rapid spread of bla OXA-48 genes between
commonly isolated high-risk clones of Enterobacterales species, frequently
associated with antibiotic resistance. Moreover, the emergence of the
multiresistant ST11 K. pneumoniae clone among nonhospitalized patients emphasizes
the difficulty of preventing its dissemination into the community.IMPORTANCE We
present results of microbiological analysis of the first Enterobacterales
isolates that were isolated in 2012 in our institution expressing OXA-48
carbapenemase. This enzyme confers resistance to carbapenems, an important group 
of antibiotics widely used in the hospitals. OXA-48 carbapenemase is currently
present in many parts of the world, but it is found particularly frequently in
the Mediterranean area. It was disseminated at the Ramón y Cajal Hospital and
found to be associated with a particular Klebsiella pneumoniae strain, so-called 
high-risk clone ST11, which was previously found in our institution in
association with other enzymes such as CTX-M-15, VIM-1, and KPC-3. This clone
might have acquired a plasmid harboring the bla OXA-48 gene. Our results point
out the importance of local epidemiology in the dissemination and maintenance of 
multidrug-resistant bacteria.

Copyright © 2020 Gijón et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSphere.00080-20 
PMCID: PMC7142293
PMID: 32269151 

