
1. Metabolites. 2020 Apr 17;10(4). pii: E156. doi: 10.3390/metabo10040156.

Towards Predicting Gut Microbial Metabolism: Integration of Flux Balance Analysis
and Untargeted Metabolomics.

Kuang E(1), Marney M(2), Cuevas D(3), Edwards RA(2)(3)(4), Forsberg EM(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, San Diego State University, San
Diego, CA 92182, USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Informatics, San Diego State University, San Diego,
CA 92182, USA.
(3)Viral Information Institute, San Diego State University, San Diego, CA 92182, 
USA.
(4)Department of Biology, San Diego State University, San Diego, CA 92182, USA.

Genomics-based metabolic models of microorganisms currently have no easy way of
corroborating predicted biomass with the actual metabolites being produced. This 
study uses untargeted mass spectrometry-based metabolomics data to generate a
list of accurate metabolite masses produced from the human commensal bacteria
Citrobacter sedlakii grown in the presence of a simple glucose carbon source. A
genomics-based flux balance metabolic model of this bacterium was previously
generated using the bioinformatics tool PyFBA and phenotypic growth curve data.
The high-resolution mass spectrometry data obtained through timed metabolic
extractions were integrated with the predicted metabolic model through a program 
called MS_FBA. This program correlated untargeted metabolomics features from C.
sedlakii with 218 of the 699 metabolites in the model using an exact mass match, 
with 51 metabolites further confirmed using predicted isotope ratios. Over 1400
metabolites were matched with additional metabolites in the ModelSEED database,
indicating the need to incorporate more specific gene annotations into the
predictive model through metabolomics-guided gap filling.

DOI: 10.3390/metabo10040156 
PMCID: PMC7240944
PMID: 32316423 

