
1. Sci Total Environ. 2019 Dec 10;695:133838. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.133838. 
Epub 2019 Aug 8.

Fixation of CO2, electron donor and redox microenvironment regulate succinic acid
production in Citrobacter amalonaticus.

Amulya K(1), Mohan SV(2).

Author information: 
(1)Bioengineering and Environmental Sciences (BEES) Lab, Department of Energy and
Environmental Engineering, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology
(CSIR-IICT), Hyderabad 500 007, India; Academy of Scientific and Innovative
Research (AcSIR), CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT)
Campus, Hyderabad 500 007, India.
(2)Bioengineering and Environmental Sciences (BEES) Lab, Department of Energy and
Environmental Engineering, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology
(CSIR-IICT), Hyderabad 500 007, India; Academy of Scientific and Innovative
Research (AcSIR), CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT)
Campus, Hyderabad 500 007, India. Electronic address: svmohan@iict.res.in.

Biological sequestration of CO2 for generating value added products is an
emerging strategy. Succinic acid (SA) is an important C4 building block chemical,
and its biological production via CO2 sequestration, holds many practical
applications. This study presents an in-depth insight on SA production using
isolated strain belonging to genus Citrobacter, more closely related to
Citrobacter amalonaticus by considering critical process parameters such as
different carbon sources at various initial concentrations, buffering agent
(NaHCO3) concentrations and different pH conditions. The effect of H2 gas as an
electron donor and availability of CO2 during SA production was also evaluated.
The results from this work demonstrated that the isolated strain depicted the
ability to utilize diverse carbon sources and highest SA production was achieved 
with sucrose as a substrate, indicating that reduced carbon substrates help in
maximizing the redox potential. Incorporation of CO2 and H2 not only enhanced the
production of SA but also affected the total acids profile favoring the
production of SA over lactic, formic and acetic acids. Additional supply of CO2
and H2 led to maximum SA production of 12.07 gL-1, productivity of 0.36 gL-1 h-1 
and SA yield of 48.5%. In control operation when no gases were supplied and in
other test conditions where either of the gases were supplied, lactic acid was
the major end product followed by acetic acid. The positive effect of CO2 for SA 
production provides scope for sustainable integration of SA and the
CO2-generating biofuel industries or industrial side streams.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.133838 
PMID: 31756859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

