
1. Poult Sci. 2019 Nov 1;98(11):5789-5800. doi: 10.3382/ps/pez375.

The efficacy of 2 phytases on inositol phosphate degradation in different
segments of the gastrointestinal tract, calcium and phosphorus digestibility, and
bone quality of broilers.

Bello A(1)(2), Dersjant-Li Y(2), Korver DR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural, Food and Nutritional Science, University of
Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2P5, Canada.
(2)DuPont Animal Nutrition, Nutrition & Biosciences Archimedesweg 30, 2333 CN
Leiden, Netherlands.

The anti-nutritional effects of dietary inositol phosphates (IP6 through IP3)
have been recognized in broiler chickens; however, inositol hexaphosphate (IP6)
is more potent than the lower IP esters. The efficacies of 2 commercial phytases,
a Buttiauxella sp. phytase (BSP) and a Citrobacter braakii phytase (CBP) at 500
and 1,000 FTU/kg, were studied on IP6-3 concentrations in the crop,
proventriculus + gizzard, and distal ileum digesta, and ileal IP6 disappearance
in broilers at day 22. Apparent ileal P and Ca digestibility, and bone quality at
days 22 and 33 were also measured. Female Ross 308 broilers (n = 1,890; 30 birds 
× 7 diets × 9 replicates) were fed corn-soy-based crumbled diets. The 7 diets
included a primary breeder recommendation-based positive control diet (PC); the
PC marginally reduced in available P by 0.146% and Ca by 0.134% of the diet,
(NC1) or moderately reduced by 0.174 and 0.159% of the diet, respectively (NC2). 
Other diets were the NC1 + BSP or CBP at 500 FTU/kg (NC1+500BSP and NC1+500CBP)
and the NC2 + BSP or CBP at 1,000 FTU/kg (NC2+1,000BSP and NC2+1,000CBP). Each of
the NC1 and NC2 had distal ileum IP6 disappearance similar to that of PC, but
each had lower P digestibility and the majority of measured bone quality
parameters than the PC. The ileal IP6 levels were decreased by 52.0 and 32.7% for
NC1+500BSP and NC1+500CBP, respectively, relative to NC1 and by 73.6 and 50.9%
for NC2+1,000BSP and NC2+1,000CBP, respectively, relative to NC2 (P < 0.001),
with a similar effect for distal ileum IP6 disappearance. Overall, phytase in the
NC diets increased P digestibility, and femur breaking strength and cortical bone
mineral density at days 22 and 33. Overall, each of the phytases at each dose
degraded IP6-3 across the gastrointestinal tract segments to increase P
digestibility and the P and Ca utilization in bone. However, dietary BSP at 1,000
FTU/kg was most effective. Supplemental phytase degrades phytate to decrease the 
anti-nutritional effects in a dose- and phytase-dependent manner.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Poultry
Science Association.

DOI: 10.3382/ps/pez375 
PMCID: PMC6771769
PMID: 31265114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

