
1. Braz J Microbiol. 2020 Aug 1. doi: 10.1007/s42770-020-00355-5. [Epub ahead of
print]

Conjugative plasmidic AmpC detected in Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis and
Klebsiella pneumoniae human clinical isolates from Portugal.

Santiago GS(1), Gonçalves D(2)(3), da Silva Coelho I(4), de Mattos de Oliveira
Coelho S(4), Neto Ferreira H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Microbiology and Immunology, Universidade Federal
Rural do Rio de Janeiro, BR 465, Km 07, Seropédica, RJ, Brazil.
gabriellissantiago@outlook.com.
(2)Laboratory of Biological Science 18.P5.E3, Faculty of Pharmacy of Universidade
do Porto Porto and UCIBIO, Jorge Viterbo Ferreira, 228, Porto, Portugal.
(3)ISAVE - Instituto Superior de Saúde, Castelo de Almourol, 13 - Apartado 49,
Amares, Portugal.
(4)Department of Veterinary Microbiology and Immunology, Universidade Federal
Rural do Rio de Janeiro, BR 465, Km 07, Seropédica, RJ, Brazil.

AmpC is a type of β-lactamase enzyme produced by bacteria; these enzymes are
classified in Class C and Group 1, and these confer resistance to cephamycin.
Enterobacterales producing AmpC are reported worldwide and have great clinical
importance due to therapeutic restriction and epidemiological importance once the
easy dissemination by plasmidic genes to other bacteria is a real threat. These
genes are naturally found in some enterobacteria as Enterobacter cloacae,
Morganella morganii, and Citrobacter freundii, but other species have
demonstrated similar resistance phenotype of AmpC production. Genes carried in
plasmids have been described in these species conferring resistance to cefoxitin 
and causing therapeutic failure in some bacterial infections. This work detected 
and described five clinical strains of Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis, and
Klebsiella pneumoniae that presented plasmid ampC (pAmpC) isolated from the north
of Portugal collected in 2009. AmpC production was confirmed by inhibition of the
enzyme by cloxacillin and boronic acid in agar diffusion tests. Also, PCR
(polymerase chain reaction) was performed for the detection of gene universal to 
AmpC, blaampC, and others to AmpC group: blaACC, blaCIT, blaCMY, blaDHA, and
blaEBC. The conjugation in liquid medium for 24 h was realized to determine if
gene is localized in chromosome or plasmid. The isolates and their conjugants
showed phenotypic characteristics and blaCMY and blaCIT were detected by PCR
corroborating the AmpC characteristics observed in these bacteria. Confirmation
of transfer of plasmid containing genes encoding AmpC is of high epidemiological 
relevance to the hospital studied and demonstrated the importance of AmpC
surveillance and studies in hospital and community environments in order to
choose the appropriate therapy for bacterial infections.

DOI: 10.1007/s42770-020-00355-5 
PMCID: PMC7395798
PMID: 32740783 

