
1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Sep 1;754:142109. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.142109.
[Epub ahead of print]

A fungus-bacterium co-culture synergistically promoted nitrogen removal by
enhancing enzyme activity and electron transfer.

Chen C(1), Wang Z(2), Zhao M(1), Yuan B(1), Yao J(2), Chen J(3), Hrynshpan D(4), 
Savitskaya T(4).

Author information: 
(1)College of Environmental, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou 310032, 
PR China.
(2)Interdisciplinary Research Academy, Zhejiang Shuren University, Hangzhou
310015, PR China.
(3)Interdisciplinary Research Academy, Zhejiang Shuren University, Hangzhou
310015, PR China. Electronic address: bec@zjut.edu.cn.
(4)Research Institute of Physical and Chemical Problems, Belarusian State
University, Minsk 220030, Belarus.

The fungus Penicillium citrinum WXP-2 and the bacterium Citrobacter freundii
WXP-9 were isolated and found to have poor denitrification performance.
Surprisingly, co-culture of the two strains which formed fungus-bacterium pellets
(FBPs) promoted the removal efficiency of nitrate (NO3--N; 95.78%) and total
nitrogen (TN; 81.73%). Nitrogen balance analysis showed that excess degraded
NO3--N was primarily converted to N2 (77.53%). Moreover, co-culture increased the
dry weight to 0.74 g/L. The diameter of pellets and cell viability also increased
by 1.49 and 1.78 times, respectively, indicating that the co-culture exerted a
synergistic effect to promote growth. The increase in electron-transmission
system activity [99.01 mg iodonitrotetrazolium formazan/(g·L)] and nitrate
reductase activity [8.65 mg N/(min·mg protein)] were responsible for
denitrification promotion. The FBPs also exhibited the highest degradation rate
at 2:1 inoculation ratio and 36 h delayed inoculation of strain WXP-9. Finally,
recycling experiments of FBP demonstrated that the high steady TN removal rate
could be maintained for five cycles.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.142109 
PMID: 32898784 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

