
1. FEMS Microbiol Ecol. 2020 Jul 1;96(7). pii: fiaa077. doi: 10.1093/femsec/fiaa077.

Characterization and survey in cattle of a rumen Pyrimadobacter sp. which
degrades the plant toxin fluoroacetate.

Kang S(1), Khan S(1), Webb R(2), Denman S(1), McSweeney C(1).

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Agriculture and Food, Queensland Bioscience Precinct, St. Lucia, QLD,
Australia.
(2)Centre for Microscopy and Microanalysis, University of Queensland, QLD,
Australia.

Among the natural halogenic compounds, the plant toxin fluoroacetate (FA) causes 
livestock fatalities in southern hemisphere countries. Here, we report on the
isolation of a rumen bacterium, strain C12-8 that degrades FA under anaerobic
conditions. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis showed this bacterium belonged to the
Pyramidobacter genus within the Synergistetes phylum and was 98% similar to
Pyramidobacter piscolens W5455 isolated from the human oral cavity. Transmission 
electron microscopy showed the cell envelope to be unusual, with only one
membrane and no obvious external wall. Growth and FA degradation were enhanced by
peptide-rich protein hydrolysates but not carbohydrates. End products of
metabolism were mainly acetate, propionate/isovalerate and isobutyrate. Strain
C12-8 preferentially used peptide-bound amino acids rather than free amino acids.
Glycine, serine, threonine, leucine, histidine and isoleucine were utilized as
free and peptide-bound amino acids, but there was minimal utilization of alanine,
proline, methionine, aspartic acid, lysine and arginine in either form. A survey 
of several cattle properties in northern Australia showed that strain C12-8 and
other FA degrading bacteria affiliated with Cloacibacillus porcorum strain MFA1
were endemic to cattle in the northern beef herd and may help to reduce toxicity.

Â© FEMS 2020.

DOI: 10.1093/femsec/fiaa077 
PMID: 32353874 

