
1. Poult Sci. 2020 Oct;99(10):5105-5117. doi: 10.1016/j.psj.2020.06.046. Epub 2020
Jul 8.

Prevalence and multilocus sequence typing of Clostridium perfringens isolated
from 4 duck farms in Shandong province, China.

Xiu L(1), Liu Y(1), Wu W(2), Chen S(1), Zhong Z(3), Wang H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Shandong Provincial Engineering Technology Research Center of Animal Disease
Control and Prevention, Shandong Agricultural University, Tai'an 271018, China;
Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Biotechnology and Disease Control
and Prevention, Shandong Agricultural University, Tai'an 271018, China.
(2)Inspection Department, Weifang Customs of the People's Republic of China,
Weifang, Shandong 261031, China.
(3)Epidemic Prevention Department, Tai'an Daiyue District Animal Husbandry and
Veterinary Bureau, Tai'an, Shandong 271018, China.
(4)Shandong Provincial Engineering Technology Research Center of Animal Disease
Control and Prevention, Shandong Agricultural University, Tai'an 271018, China;
Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Biotechnology and Disease Control
and Prevention, Shandong Agricultural University, Tai'an 271018, China.
Electronic address: wanghairongtaian@163.com.

Clostridium perfringens is an important zoonotic microorganism. The present study
was undertaken to investigate prevalence, serotype distribution, antibiotic
resistance, and genetic diversity of C. perfringens isolates from 4 duck farms in
Shandong, China. In total, 424 samples of cloacal swabs and environment were
collected from 3 commercial meat-type duck farms in Tai'an, Liaocheng, and
Weifang and one breeder duck farm in Liaocheng between December 2018 and June
2019, of which, 207 (48.82%) samples were determined to be positive for C.
perfringens; a total of 402 isolates of C. perfringens were recovered, all of
which were identified as type A; 30.85% of the isolates were positive for cpb2
gene; and cpe gene was found in 0.5% of the isolates. Antimicrobial
susceptibility testing revealed that some of the isolates exhibited high
antibiotic resistance, and 39.14% of the isolates were resistant to at least 5
classes of commonly used antibiotics. Multilocus sequence typing analysis showed 
that 85 representative isolates encompassed 54 different sequences types (STs),
clustered in 5 clonal complexes (CCs) and 40 singletons. ST3, the most common ST 
in 54 STs, constituting 15.29% of all isolates, was also the most prevalent ST of
isolates from the Liaocheng breeder duck farm (farm 3). CC1, the most prolific
CC, containing 15.29% of the analyzed isolates, was the popular subtype of
isolates from Liaocheng meat duck farm (farm 2). Although all the isolates belong
to type A, the genetic diversity varied greatly in different regions; the
Simpson's Diversity Index of STs for Liaocheng, Tai'an, and Weifang were 0.5941, 
0.9198, and 0.9627, respectively. Some of cloacal isolates and environmental
isolates were distributed in the same ST or CC, indicating close genetic
relationship between cloacal isolates and environmental isolates. A portion of
the strains from humans and ducks was found to be phylogenetically close. The
close relationship between strains from humans and ducks, the high antibiotic
resistance of C. perfringens, and the cpe-positive isolates indicated potential
public health risks.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psj.2020.06.046 
PMID: 32988549 

