
1. Toxins (Basel). 2020 Sep 17;12(9). pii: E603. doi: 10.3390/toxins12090603.

Structural and Biochemical Characterization of Botulinum Neurotoxin Subtype B2
Binding to Its Receptors.

Davies JR(1), Masuyer G(1)(2), Stenmark P(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Stockholm University, SE-106 91
Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, Centre for Therapeutic Innovation,
University of Bath, Bath BA2 7AY, UK.
(3)Department of Experimental Medical Science, Lund University, SE-221 00 Lund,
Sweden.

Botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) can be used therapeutically to treat a wide range
of neuromuscular and neurological conditions. A collection of natural BoNT
variants exists which can be classified into serologically distinct serotypes
(BoNT/B), and further divided into subtypes (BoNT/B1, B2, â€¦). BoNT subtypes share
a high degree of sequence identity within the same serotype yet can display large
variation in toxicity. One such example is BoNT/B2, which was isolated from
Clostridium botulinum strain 111 in a clinical case of botulism, and presents a
10-fold lower toxicity than BoNT/B1. In an effort to understand the molecular
mechanisms behind this difference in potency, we here present the crystal
structures of BoNT/B2 in complex with the ganglioside receptor GD1a, and with the
human synaptotagmin I protein receptor. We show, using receptor-binding assays,
that BoNT/B2 has a slightly higher affinity for GD1a than BoNT/B1, and confirm
its considerably weaker affinity for its protein receptors. Although the overall 
receptor-binding mechanism is conserved for both receptors, structural analysis
suggests the lower affinity of BoNT/B2 is the result of key substitutions, where 
hydrophobic interactions important for synaptotagmin-binding are replaced by
polar residues. This study provides a template to drive the development of future
BoNT therapeutic molecules centered on assessing the natural subtype variations
in receptor-binding that appears to be one of the principal stages driving
toxicity.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins12090603 
PMID: 32957706 

