
1. Recent Pat Antiinfect Drug Discov. 2020 Sep 24. doi:
10.2174/1574891X15666200925092354. [Epub ahead of print]

Fecal Microbiota Transplant: Latest Addition to Arsenal Against Recurrent
Clostridium Difficile Infection.

Gulati M(1), Singh SK(1), Corrie L(1), Chandwani L(1), Singh A(2), Kapoor B(1),
Kumar R(1), Pandey NK(1), Kumar B(1), Awasthi A(1), Khursheed R(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Lovely Professional University, Phagwara,
Punjab- 144411. India.
(2)Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care, Postgraduate Institute of
Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh-160012. India.

An infectious disease of colon, recurrent Clostridium difficile infection (RCDI) 
is hitherto considered insurmountable leading to significant morbidity and
mortality. Gut dysbiosis, generally resulting from frequent use of antibiotics is
considered to be responsible for the etiopathogenesis of rCDI. Ironically, the
conventional treatment strategies for the disease also include the use of
anti-infective drugs such as metronidazole, vancomycin and fidaxomycin. As a
result of the efforts to overcome the limitations of these treatment options to
control recurrence of disease, Fecal Microbiota Transplant (FMT) has emerged as
an effective and safe alternative. It is pertinent to add here that FMT is
defined as the process of engraftment of fecal suspension from the healthy person
into the gastrointestinal tract of the diseased individual aiming at the
restoration of gut microbiota. FMT has proved to be quite successful in the
treatment of recurrent and resistant Clostridium difficile infections (RCDI). In 
last three decades a lot of information has been generated on the use of FMT for 
RCDI. A number of clinical trials have been reported with generally very high
success rates. However, very small number of patents could be found in the area
indicating that there still exists lacuna in the knowledge about FMT with respect
to its preparation, regulation, mode of delivery and safety. The current review
attempts to dive deeper to discuss the patents available in the area while
supporting the information contained therein with the non-patent literature.

CopyrightÂ© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1574891X15666200925092354 
PMID: 32981509 

