
1. J Biotechnol. 2019 Nov 10;305:18-22. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2019.08.019. Epub
2019 Aug 28.

Development of an in vivo fluorescence based gene expression reporter system for 
Clostridium tyrobutyricum.

Cheng C(1), Lin M(2), Jiang W(3), Zhao J(3), Li W(4), Yang ST(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Bioengineering, Dalian University of Technology, Dalian 116024,
China; William G. Lowrie Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, The
Ohio State University, 151 Woodruff Ave., Columbus, OH 43210, USA.
(2)Bioprocessing Innovative Company, 4734 Bridle Path Ct., Dublin, OH 43017, USA.
(3)William G. Lowrie Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, The
Ohio State University, 151 Woodruff Ave., Columbus, OH 43210, USA.
(4)William G. Lowrie Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, The
Ohio State University, 151 Woodruff Ave., Columbus, OH 43210, USA; School of
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150090, China.
(5)William G. Lowrie Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, The
Ohio State University, 151 Woodruff Ave., Columbus, OH 43210, USA. Electronic
address: yang.15@osu.edu.

C. tyrobutyricum, an acidogenic Clostridium, has aroused increasing interest due 
to its potential to produce biofuel efficiently. However, construction of
recombinant C. tyrobutyricum for enhanced biofuel production has been impeded by 
the limited genetic engineering tools. In this study, a flavin mononucleotide
(FMN)-dependent fluorescent protein Bs2-based gene expression reporter system was
developed to monitor transformation and explore in vivo strength and regulation
of various promoters in C. tyrobutyricum and C. acetobutylicum. Unlike green
fluorescent protein (GFP) and its variants, Bs2 can emit green light without
oxygen, which makes it extremely suitable for promoter screening and
transformation confirmation in organisms grown anaerobically. The expression
levels of bs2 under thiolase promoters from C. tyrobutyricum and C.
acetobutylicum were measured and compared based on fluorescence intensities. The 
capacities of the two promoters in driving secondary alcohol dehydrogenase (adh) 
gene for isopropanol production in C. tyrobutyricum were distinguished,
confirming that this reporter system is a convenient, effective and reliable tool
for promoter strength assay and real time monitoring in C. tyrobutyricum, while
demonstrating the feasibility of producing isopropanol in C. tyrobutyricum for
the first time.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2019.08.019 
PMID: 31472166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

