
1. Adv Appl Microbiol. 2020;113:111-161. doi: 10.1016/bs.aambs.2020.07.004. Epub
2020 Aug 14.

Clostridium thermocellum: A microbial platform for high-value chemical production
from lignocellulose.

Mazzoli R(1), Olson DG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Structural and Functional Biochemistry, Laboratory of Proteomics and Metabolic
Engineering of Prokaryotes, Department of Life Sciences and Systems Biology,
University of Torino, Torino, Italy. Electronic address:
roberto.mazzoli@unito.it.
(2)Thayer School of Engineering, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH, United States;
Center for BioEnergy Innovation, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN,
United States.

Second generation biorefining, namely fermentation processes based on
lignocellulosic feedstocks, has attracted tremendous interest (owing to the large
availability and low cost of this biomass) as a strategy to produce biofuels and 
commodity chemicals that is an alternative to oil refining. However, the innate
recalcitrance of lignocellulose has slowed progress toward economically viable
processes. Consolidated bioprocessing (CBP), i.e., single-step fermentation of
lignocellulose may dramatically reduce the current costs of 2nd generation
biorefining. Metabolic engineering has been used as a tool to develop improved
microbial strains supporting CBP. Clostridium thermocellum is among the most
efficient cellulose degraders isolated so far and one of the most promising host 
organisms for application of CBP. The development of efficient and reliable
genetic tools has allowed significant progress in metabolic engineering of this
strain aimed at expanding the panel of growth substrates and improving the
production of a number of commodity chemicals of industrial interest such as
ethanol, butanol, isobutanol, isobutyl acetate and lactic acid. The present
review aims to summarize recent developments in metabolic engineering of this
organism which currently represents a reference model for the development of
biocatalysts for 2nd generation biorefining.

Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.aambs.2020.07.004 
PMID: 32948265 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest Authors declare no conflict 
of interest.

