
1. Cell Microbiol. 2020 Jul;22(7):e13213. doi: 10.1111/cmi.13213. Epub 2020 May 28.

Bacterial intracellularly active toxins: Membrane localisation of the active
domain.

Varela-Chavez C(1), Blondel A(2), Popoff MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bacterial Toxins, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.
(2)Unité de Bio-Informatique Structurale, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.

Numerous bacterial toxins exert their activity by inactivating or modulating a
specific intracellular host target. For this purpose, these toxins have developed
efficient strategies to overcome the different host cell defences including
specific binding to cell surface, internalisation, passage through the endosome
or plasma membrane, exploiting intracellular trafficking and addressing to
intracellular targets. Several intracellularly active toxins deliver an active
domain into the cytosol that interacts with a target localised to the inner face 
of the plasma membrane. Thus, the large clostridial glucosylating toxins (LCGTs) 
target Rho/Ras-GTPases, certain virulence factors of Gram negative bacteria,
Rho-GTPases, while Pasteurella multocida toxin (PMT) targets trimeric G-proteins.
Others such as botulinum neurotoxins and tetanus neurotoxin have their substrate 
on synaptic vesicle membrane. LCGTs, PMT, and certain virulence factors from
Vibrio sp. show a particular structure constituted of a four-helix bundle
membrane (4HBM) protruding from the catalytic site that specifically binds to the
membrane phospholipids and then trap the catalytic domain at the proximity of the
membrane anchored substrate. Structural and functional analysis indicate that the
4HBM tip of the Clostridium sordellii lethal toxin (TcsL) from the LCGT family
contain two loops forming a cavity that mediates the binding to phospholipids and
more specifically to phosphatidylserine.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cmi.13213 
PMID: 32353188 

