
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Sep;77(9):2544-2553. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02092-2. Epub
2020 Jun 24.

Identification of Hydrogen Gas Producing Anaerobic Bacteria Isolated from Sago
Industrial Effluent.

Nizzy AM(1), Kannan S(2), Anand SB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Studies, School of Energy Sciences, Madurai
Kamaraj University, Madurai, Tamil Nadu, 625021, India. albertnizzy@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Environmental Studies, School of Energy Sciences, Madurai
Kamaraj University, Madurai, Tamil Nadu, 625021, India.
(3)Department of Genetic Engineering, School of Biotechnology, Madurai Kamaraj
University, Madurai, Tamil Nadu, 625021, India.

In this study, the biohydrogen production ability of isolated strains with sago
industrial effluent in anaerobic batch fermentation was investigated. The
bacteria responsible for the biohydrogen were isolated and identified as
Clostridium sartagoforme NASGE 01 and Enterobacter cloacae NASGE 02. The volume
of biohydrogen gas generated from the effluent was determined by gas
chromatography (GC) and the organic acids formed during the biohydrogen
production were determined by GC equipped with a flame ionization detector
(GC-FID). In batch fermentation, C. sartagoforme NASGE 01 produced high amount of
biogas (232 ± 11.02 mL/L) and biohydrogen (41.5%) followed by E. cloacae NASGE 02
produced 212.8 ± 8 mL/L biogas containing 31.5% of biohydrogen. Moreover, the
hydrogen production potential (P), production rate (Rm) and lag time (λ) were
analyzed from Gompertz non-linear curve fit model. The peak hydrogen yield was
obtained with C. sartagoforme NASGE 01 was 158.7 mL/g glucose (1.26 mol H2/mol
glucose) with the substrate degradation of 56.7%. Butyric acid was the major
organic acid formed while hydrogen production with Clostridium sartagoforme NASGE
01 (176.4 mg/L) and Enterobacter cloacae NASGE 02 (285.1 mg/L). These
experimental data demonstrated the feasibility of biohydrogen production using
pure culture of anaerobic bacteria with sago industrial waste water as substrate.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02092-2 
PMID: 32583158 

