
1. Andrologia. 2020 Aug 11:e13740. doi: 10.1111/and.13740. [Epub ahead of print]

Efficacy and safety of dorsal penile nerve block before collagenase of
clostridium histolyticum injections in peyronie's disease patients: Results from 
a prospective pilot study.

García Rojo E(1), García Gómez B(1)(2), Manfredi C(1)(3), Alonso Isa M(1)(2),
Medina Polo J(1)(2), Carpintero Miguel M(1), Romero Otero J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Hospital,
Universitary Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Department of Urology, University HM Montepríncipe Hospital, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Urology Unit, Department of Neurosciences, Reproductive Sciences, and
Odontostomatology, University of Naples "Federico II", Naples, Italy.

The intraplaque injection of collagenase from Clostridium Histolyticum (CCH) was 
established as an effective therapeutic alternative for selected patients with
Peyronie's disease (PD). There is no consensus on the use of pre-procedure
anaesthesia. The aim of this pilot study was to assess the efficacy and safety of
dorsal penile block before CCH injections in reducing procedure related pain. The
treatment protocol described in the IMPRESS trials was adopted. The first
injection of the first cycle was given without anaesthesia, while the second
after penile block. After the administration of each injection, the pain related 
to the procedure was evaluated with the Wong-Baker-FACES® -Pain-Rating-Scale.
Thirty patients were included. Mean age 56.7 (SD: 9.61) years. Mean basal penile 
curvature 59.37º (SD: 18.26). The mean pain value related to the procedure
measured after the first injection of the first cycle (without anaesthesia) was
5.4 (SD: 2.13), while after the second injection (with anaesthesia) was 2.5 (SD: 
1.92), (p < .001). The treatment was more painful in patients with dorsal plaques
(mean:6.2) than in patients with lateral plaques (mean: 4.35) (p = .01). We can
conclude that penile block before CCH injection in patients with PD seems an
effective and safe measure to decrease the pain related to the procedure.

© 2020 Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/and.13740 
PMID: 32780475 

