
1. Poult Sci. 2020 Oct;99(10):4861-4873. doi: 10.1016/j.psj.2020.05.033. Epub 2020
Jun 26.

Interactive effect of 2 dietary calcium and phytase levels on broilers challenged
with subclinical necrotic enteritis: part 1-broiler performance, gut lesions and 
pH, bacterial counts, and apparent ileal digestibility.

Zanu HK(1), Kheravii SK(1), Morgan NK(1), Bedford MR(2), Swick RA(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Environmental and Rural Science, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia.
(2)AB Vista, Marlborough, Wiltshire SN8 4AN, United Kingdom.
(3)School of Environmental and Rural Science, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia. Electronic address: rswick@une.edu.au.

This study investigated the hypothesis that high dietary calcium (Ca) would
stimulate necrotic enteritis (NE) and reduce performance, gut health, and
nutrient digestibility, and if increased, phytase would reduce NE. Ross 308 male 
broilers (n = 768) were randomly distributed to 8 treatments in a factorial
arrangement. Factors were NE challenge (no or yes), phytase level (500 or 1,500
FTU/kg using 500 FTU/kg matrix values), and Ca level (0.6 or 1.0% starter, 0.5 or
0.9% grower, 0.4 or 0.8% finisher) with the same level of available P (0.40 S,
0.35 G, and 0.35 F). There were 48 pens, 16 birds per pen and 6 replications.
Half of the birds were challenged with Eimeria spp on day 9 and 108 CFU per mL of
Clostridium perfringens strain EHE-NE18 on day 14 and 15. Gain was higher in
birds fed high phytase on day 14 (P < 0.01), day 21 (P < 0.01), day 28
(P < 0.01), and day 35 (P < 0.01). Birds fed high phytase had greater livability 
on day 21 (P < 0.01). Ca was more digestible in high-Ca diets on day 16, and an
NE × Ca interaction (P < 0.05) showed this effect to be more pronounced in
unchallenged than in challenged birds. A challenge × Ca interaction for apparent 
ileal digestibility (AID) of crude protein (CP) (P < 0.05) indicated lower AID of
CP in challenged birds fed high Ca. The challenge decreased AID of Ca (P < 0.01).
Ca level had no impact on C. perfringens count, but it decreased Lactobacillus
(P < 0.05) and Bifidobacteria (P < 0.05) populations in the ceca. High dietary Ca
decreased feed conversion ratio. Overall (42 D), the highest WG was observed in
unchallenged birds fed high Ca and high phytase with the lowest WG observed in
NE-challenged birds fed low Ca and low phytase. The results suggest that full
matrix values for high doses of phytase may be appropriate during NE challenge.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psj.2020.05.033 
PMID: 32988523 

