
1. BMJ Open Diabetes Res Care. 2020 Jul;8(1). pii: e001319. doi:
10.1136/bmjdrc-2020-001319.

Improvements to postprandial glucose control in subjects with type 2 diabetes: a 
multicenter, double blind, randomized placebo-controlled trial of a novel
probiotic formulation.

Perraudeau F(1), McMurdie P(1), Bullard J(1), Cheng A(1), Cutcliffe C(1), Deo
A(1), Eid J(1), Gines J(1), Iyer M(1), Justice N(1), Loo WT(1), Nemchek M(1),
Schicklberger M(1), Souza M(1), Stoneburner B(1), Tyagi S(1), Kolterman O(2).

Author information: 
(1)Pendulum Therapeutics, Inc, San Francisco, California, USA.
(2)Pendulum Therapeutics, Inc, San Francisco, California, USA
orville.kolterman@pendulum.co.

INTRODUCTION: A growing body of evidence suggests that specific, naturally
occurring gut bacteria are under-represented in the intestinal tracts of subjects
with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and that their functions, like gut barrier stability
and butyrate production, are important to glucose and insulin homeostasis. The
objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that enteral exposure to
microbes with these proposed functions can safely improve clinical measures of
glycemic control and thereby play a role in the overall dietary management of
diabetes.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We evaluated whether a probiotic comprised of these 
anaerobic bacteria would enhance dietary management by (1) manufacturing two
novel probiotic formulations containing three (WBF-010) or five (WBF-011)
distinct strains in a Current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) facility, (2)
establishing consistent live-cell concentrations, (3) confirming safety at target
concentrations dispensed in both animal and human studies and (4) conducting a
12-week parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled, proof-of-concept study in
which subjects previously diagnosed with T2D (n=76) were randomly assigned to a
two times a day regimen of placebo, WBF-010 or WBF-011.
RESULTS: No safety or tolerability issues were observed. Compared with the
placebo group, subjects administered WBF-011 (which contains inulin, Akkermansia 
muciniphila, Clostridium beijerinckii, Clostridium butyricum, Bifidobacterium
infantis and Anaerobutyricum hallii) significantly improved in the primary
outcome, glucose total area under the curve (AUC): -36.1 mg/dL/180 min, p=0.0500 
and also improved in secondary outcomes, glycated hemoglobin (A1c): -0.6, glucose
incremental-AUC: -28.6 mg/dL/180 min.
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the first randomized controlled trial to
administer four of the five strains to human subjects with T2D. This
proof-of-concept study (clinical trial number NCT03893422) shows that the
intervention was safe and well tolerated and that supplementation with WBF-011
improves postprandial glucose control. The limited sample size and intersubject
variability justifies future studies designed to confirm and expand on these
observations.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjdrc-2020-001319 
PMCID: PMC7368581
PMID: 32675291 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors are employees
and stock/stock option shareholders of Pendulum Therapeutics, Inc (formerly known
as ‘Whole Biome Inc.’). OK owns stock in GlySens, Inc, has stock options in
ViaCyte, Inc, and is a consultant to NuSirt BioPharma, Circius, and NanoPrecision
Medical.

