
1. Arch Razi Inst. 2020 Jun;75(2):219-225. doi: 10.22092/ari.2019.124567.1284. Epub 
2020 Jun 1.

Improvement in the Growth and α-toxin Production of Clostridium septicum by
Magnesium Sulfate.

Fathi Najaf M(1)(2), Hemmaty M(1)(2)(1), Navidmehr J(1), Afsharian M(1), Farhoodi
M(2), Zibaee S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Salim Immune Product Company, Mashhad Branch, Razi Technology Incubator, Razi 
Vaccine and Serum Research Institute of Mashhad, Agricultural Research, Education
and Extension Organization (AREEO), Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Mashhad Branch, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, Agricultural
Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Mashhad, Iran.

Clostridium septicum, the anaerobic toxigenic bacterium is the agent that causes 
dangerous disease in man and animals. There is a lethal toxin of the bacterium
namely alpha toxin. The ɑ-toxin has hemolytic, necrotic and lethal activities.
Today, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute of Iran produced the C. septicum
vaccine in the form of bacterin/toxoid. Because of some problems, the vaccine
needs to improve on an industrial scale. The study is going to find an
appropriate supplement to improve growth and ɑ-toxin production. Three strains of
C. septicum (vaccine, NH1 and NH8 strains) were cultured in the basic vaccine
media. Magnesium sulfate, Copper, Ferrous, yeast extract, and trace elements plus
vitamins&amp;#39; solution were added to the basic vaccine media in different
cultures. The effect of the ingredients on the growth was measured by a
spectrophotometer and the &amp;alpha;-toxin secretion was assayed by hemolysin
test. Growth of the bacterium and &amp;alpha;-toxin secretion were increased by
Magnesium (80 mg/l) in NH8 and vaccine strains significantly. The black
precipitate was difficult to dissolve in magnesium media that must be solved.
Trace elements plus vitamins solution mildly influence on NH1strain growth and
toxin secretion. Other supplements (Cu, Fe, yeast extract) were not showen any
significant changes in the growth and &amp;alpha;-toxin production of C.
septicum. Overflowing peptone (4%) in the vaccine media, fixes essentials of
proteolysis activity, allows the sufficient growth and toxin production without
Cu, Fe, and yeast extract. Due to essentially of Mg for growth, extra magnesium
was added for improvement of media culture. The study suggests for Magnesium
addition in the C. septicum vaccine media during production procedure after
precipitation solving problem.

Copyright © 2020, Archives of Razi Institute. Published by Kowsar.

DOI: 10.22092/ari.2019.124567.1284 
PMID: 32621451 

