
1. Comb Chem High Throughput Screen. 2020 Sep 2. doi:
10.2174/1386207323666200902140656. [Epub ahead of print]

Gene Expression Profiling Analysis to Identify Key Genes and Underlying
Mechanisms in Meniscus of Osteoarthritis Patients.

Wang B(1), Zhong JL(1), Xu XH(1), Wu B(1), Shang J(1), Jiang N(1), Lu HD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen
University, Zhuhai 519000, Guangdong. China.

BACKGROUND: Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative joint disease that seriously
affects the quality of life of elderly individuals. Regrettably, the pathological
mechanism for OA has not yet been fully elucidated. This study is committed to
distinguishing key genes and the underlying mechanisms for OA. Raw data was
acquired from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. We identified
differentially expressed genes (DEGs), hub genes, and key genes through
bioinformatics analysis. Subsequently, we predicted the microRNAs (miRNAs) and
circular RNAs (circRNAs) associated with these key genes that may play key roles 
in OA using web tools. We also constructed a protein-drug network and found
potentially effective drugs by analyzing the relationships between the drugs and 
the key genes.
RESULTS: The analysis revealed 360 DEGs, 24 hub genes, and 15 key genes enriched 
in many categories potentially related to the pathological mechanism of OA.
hsa-miR-29a-3p, hsa-miR-29b-3p, and hsa-miR-29c-3p were predicted to be important
miRNAs for OA, while hsa_circ_0025119, hsa_circ_0025113, hsa_circ_0009897, and
hsa_circ_0002447 were predicted to be the most important circRNAs. Further
studies indicated that Ocriplasmin and Collagenase clostridium histolyticum may
be effective drugs for the treatment of OA. Finally, CD34 and VWF were inferred
to be the most meaningful biomarkers for OA.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, we determined the underlying key genes, miRNAs, and
circRNAs for OA, predicted potentially effective drugs, and identified the most
meaningful biomarkers for the disease. Our findings may provide insight into the 
pathological mechanism of OA and guide future research.

CopyrightÂ© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1386207323666200902140656 
PMID: 32881662 

