
1. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2020 Jun 26. doi: 10.1002/bit.27478. [Epub ahead of print]

Efficient secretory production of large-size heterologous enzymes in Bacillus
subtilis: A secretory partner and directed evolution.

Liu S(1), Wang J(1), Zhu Z(1), Shi T(1), Zhang YPJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Tianjin, China.

Secretory production of recombinant proteins provides a simple approach to the
production and purification of target proteins in the enzyme industry. We
developed a combined strategy for the secretory production of three large-size
heterologous enzymes with a special focus on 83-kDa isoamylase (IA) from an
archaeon Sulfolobus tokodaii in a bacterium Bacillus subtilis. First, a secretory
protein of the B. subtilis family 5 glycoside hydrolase endoglucanase (Cel5) was 
used as a fusion partner, along with the NprB signal peptide, to facilitate
secretory production of IA. This secretory partner strategy was effective for the
secretion of two other large enzymes: family 9 glycoside hydrolase from
Clostridium phytofermentas and cellodextrin phosphorylase from Clostridium
thermocellum. Second, the secretion of Cel5-IA was improved by directed evolution
with two novel double-layer Petri-dish-based high-throughput screening (HTS)
methods. The high-sensitivity HTS relied on the detection of high-activity Cel5
on the carboxymethylcellulose/Congo-red assay. The second modest-sensitivity HTS 
focused on the detection of low-activity IA on the amylodextrin-I2 assay. After
six rounds of HTS, a secretory Cel5-IA level was increased to 234 mg/L, 155 times
the wild-type IA with the NprB signal peptide only. This combinatory strategy
could be useful to enhance the secretory production of large-size heterologous
proteins in B. subtilis.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.27478 
PMID: 32589796 

