
1. Microb Genom. 2020 Sep 25. doi: 10.1099/mgen.0.000441. [Epub ahead of print]

Phylogenetic and genomic analysis reveals high genomic openness and genetic
diversity of Clostridium perfringens.

Feng Y(1), Fan X(2), Zhu L(2), Yang X(1), Liu Y(1), Gao S(3), Jin X(1), Liu D(1),
Ding J(2), Guo Y(1), Hu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition, College of Animal Science and
Technology, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100193, PR China.
(2)China Institute of Veterinary Drug Control, Beijing 100081, PR China.
(3)Dandong Customs, Liaoning 118000, PR China.

Clostridium perfringens is associated with a variety of diseases in both humans
and animals. Recent advances in genomic sequencing make it timely to re-visit
this important pathogen. Although the genome sequence of C. perfringens was first
determined in 2002, large-scale comparative genomics with isolates of different
origins is still lacking. In this study, we used whole-genome sequencing of 45 C.
perfringens isolates with isolation time spanning an 80-year period and performed
comparative analysis of 173 genomes from worldwide strains. We also conducted
phylogenetic lineage analysis and introduced an openness index (OI) to evaluate
the openness of bacterial genomes. We classified all these genomes into five
lineages and hypothesized that the origin of C. perfringens dates back to
~80 000 years ago. We showed that the pangenome of the 173 C. perfringens strains
contained a total of 26 954 genes, while the core genome comprised 1020 genes,
accounting for about a third of the genome of each isolate. We demonstrated that 
C. perfringens had the highest OI compared with 51 other bacterial species.
Intact prophage sequences were found in nearly 70.0 % of C. perfringens genomes, 
while CRISPR sequences were found only in ~40.0 %. Plasmids were prevalent in C. 
perfringens isolates, and half of the virulence genes and antibiotic resistance
genes (ARGs) identified in all the isolates could be found in plasmids.
ARG-sharing network analysis showed that C. perfringens shared its 11 ARGs with
55 different bacterial species, and a high frequency of ARG transfer may have
occurred between C. perfringens and species in the genera Streptococcus and
Staphylococcus. Correlation analysis showed that the ARG number in C. perfringens
strains increased with time, while the virulence gene number was relative stable.
Our results, taken together with previous studies, revealed the high genome
openness and genetic diversity of C. perfringens and provide a comprehensive view
of the phylogeny, genomic features, virulence gene and ARG profiles of worldwide 
strains.

DOI: 10.1099/mgen.0.000441 
PMID: 32975504 

