
1. Urology. 2020 Sep 4. pii: S0090-4295(20)31094-3. doi:
10.1016/j.urology.2020.08.045. [Epub ahead of print]

Long-term Curvature Deformity Characterization in Men Previously Treated With
Collagenase Clostridium Histolyticum for Peyronie's Disease, Subgrouped by Penile
Plaque Calcification.

Goldstein I(1), McLane MP(2), Xiang Q(2), Wolfe HR(2), Hu Y(2), Gelbard MK(3).

Author information: 
(1)the Alvarado Hospital, San Diego, CA. Electronic address:
dr.irwingoldstein@gmail.com.
(2)the Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc., Malvern, PA.
(3)the Department of Urology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los
Angeles, CA.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the long-term (5-year) efficacy and safety of collagenase
clostridium histolyticum (CCH) therapy in men with Peyronie's disease and varying
degrees of plaque calcification.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: CCH-treated adult men from the 12-month Investigation for 
Maximal Peyronie's Reduction Efficacy and Safety Studies I/II or 9-month
open-label studies were eligible. Degree of plaque calcification (no
calcification, noncontiguous stippled calcification, or calcification that did
not interfere with CCH injection) was determined by penile x-ray or ultrasound.
Penile curvature deformity and Peyronie's Disease Questionnaire responses were
assessed annually for up to 5 years, with ≥6 months between consecutive visits.
RESULTS: For no calcification group, from baseline to last (Reference) visit
during the prior studies (n = 160), mean penile curvature improved by 20.9° ±
16.3° (39.3%) with CCH. Similar improvements with CCH from baseline to Reference 
were observed in stippled calcification (n = 27; improvement of 24.1° ± 20.2°
[42.7%]) and calcification (n = 27; improvement of 21.7° ± 14.8° [43.3%])
subgroups. At Year 5 follow-up in no calcification group (n = 119), an additional
10.0% improvement in mean penile curvature vs Reference (4.3°) occurred. Penile
curvature improvements seen at Reference in stippled calcification and
calcification groups were maintained through Year 5. Additional numeric
improvements in 3 Peyronie's Disease Questionnaire domains were observed at Year 
5 visit vs baseline scores. No long-term safety issues were identified.
CONCLUSION: This first report of long-term (5-year) CCH clinical trial outcomes
in a population with penile plaque calcification demonstrates that nonsurgical
intralesional CCH therapy is an appropriate Peyronie's disease treatment in men
with penile plaque calcification that is stippled or does not impede CCH
injection.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2020.08.045 
PMID: 32896582 

