
1. Br J Nutr. 2020 Jun 1:1-12. doi: 10.1017/S0007114520001853. [Epub ahead of print]

Dietary inflammatory potential in relation to the gut microbiome: results from a 
cross-sectional study.

Zheng J(1), Hoffman KL(1)(2), Chen JS(1)(3), Shivappa N(4), Sood A(1)(5), Browman
GJ(1), Dirba DD(6), Hanash S(7), Wei P(3)(8), Hebert JR(4), Petrosino JF(2),
Schembre SM(6)(9), Daniel CR(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Division of Cancer Prevention and Population
Sciences, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX77030,
USA.
(2)Alkek Center for Metagenomics and Microbiome Research, Department of Molecular
Virology and Microbiology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX77030, USA.
(3)Quantitative Sciences Program, The University of Texas Graduate School of
Biomedical Sciences at Houston and MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX77030,
USA.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Arnold School of Public Health, 
University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC29208, USA.
(5)Internal Medicine, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX77555,
USA.
(6)Department of Behavioral Science, Division of Cancer Prevention and Population
Sciences, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX77030,
USA.
(7)Department of Clinical Cancer Prevention, Division of Cancer Prevention and
Population Sciences, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, 
TX77030, USA.
(8)Department of Biostatistics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX77030, USA.
(9)Department of Family and Community Medicine, University of Arizona, Tucson,
AZ85721, USA.

Diet has direct and indirect effects on health through inflammation and the gut
microbiome. We investigated total dietary inflammatory potential via the
literature-derived index (Dietary Inflammatory Index (DII®)) with gut microbiota 
diversity, composition and function. In cancer-free patient volunteers initially 
approached at colonoscopy and healthy volunteers recruited from the medical
centre community, we assessed 16S ribosomal DNA in all subjects who provided
dietary assessments and stool samples (n 101) and the gut metagenome in a subset 
of patients with residual fasting blood samples (n 34). Associations of
energy-adjusted DII scores with microbial diversity and composition were examined
using linear regression, permutational multivariate ANOVA and linear discriminant
analysis. Spearman correlation was used to evaluate associations of species and
pathways with DII and circulating inflammatory markers. Across DII levels, α- and
β-diversity did not significantly differ; however, Ruminococcus torques,
Eubacterium nodatum, Acidaminococcus intestini and Clostridium leptum were more
abundant in the most pro-inflammatory diet group, while Akkermansia muciniphila
was enriched in the most anti-inflammatory diet group. With adjustment for age
and BMI, R. torques, E. nodatum and A. intestini remained significantly
associated with a more pro-inflammatory diet. In the metagenomic and fasting
blood subset, A. intestini was correlated with circulating plasminogen activator 
inhibitor-1, a pro-inflammatory marker (rho = 0·40), but no associations remained
significant upon correction for multiple testing. An index reflecting overall
inflammatory potential of the diet was associated with specific microbes, but not
overall diversity of the gut microbiome in our study. Findings from this
preliminary study warrant further research in larger samples and prospective
cohorts.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114520001853 
PMID: 32475373 

