
1. Front Oncol. 2019 Dec 6;9:1346. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2019.01346. eCollection 2019.

Intestinal Flora Disruption and Novel Biomarkers Associated With Nasopharyngeal
Carcinoma.

Jiang H(1), Li J(2), Zhang B(3), Huang R(2), Zhang J(2), Chen Z(1), Shang X(1),
Li X(1), Nie X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Laboratory, Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South University,
Changsha, China.
(2)Department of Blood Transfusion, Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South
University, Changsha, China.
(3)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Biology Postdoctoral Workstation,
School of Basic Medical Sciences, Central South University, Changsha, China.

Background: Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a malignant nasopharyngeal disease 
with a complicated etiology that occurs mostly in southern China. Intestinal
flora imbalance is believed to be associated with a variety of organ
malignancies. Current studies revealed that the destruction of intestinal flora
is associated with NPC, and many studies have shown that intestinal flora can be 
used as a biomarker for many cancers and to predict cancer. Methods: To compare
the differences in intestinal flora compositions and biological functions among 8
patients with familial NPC (NPC_F), 24 patients with sporadic NPC (NPC_S), and 27
healthy controls (NOR), we compared the intestinal flora DNA sequencing and
hematological testing results between every two groups using bioinformatic
methods. Results: Compared to the NOR group, the intestinal flora structures of
the patients in the NPC_F and NPC_S groups showed significant changes. In NPC_F, 
Clostridium ramosum, Citrobacter spp., Veillonella spp., and Prevotella spp. were
significantly increased, and Akkermansia muciniphila and Roseburia spp. were
significantly reduced. In NPC_S, C. ramosum, Veillonella parvula, Veillonella
dispar, and Klebsiella spp. were significantly increased, and Bifidobacterium
adolescentis was significantly reduced. A beta diversity analysis showed
significant difference compared NPC_F with NOR based on Bray Curtis (P = 0.012)
and Unweighted UniFrac (P = 0.0045) index, respectively. The areas under the ROC 
curves plotted were all 1. Additionally, the concentrations of
5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in NPC_F and NPC_S were significantly higher than
those of NOR. C. ramosum was positively correlated with 5-HT (rcm: 0.85, P <
0.001). A functional analysis of the intestinal flora showed that NPC_F was
associated with Neurodegenerative Diseases (P = 0.023) and that NPC_S was
associated with Neurodegenerative Diseases (P = 0.045) as well. Conclusion: We
found that NPC was associated with structural imbalances in the intestinal flora,
with C. ramosum that promoted the elevation of 5-HT and opportunistic pathogens
being significantly increased, while probiotics significantly decreased. C.
ramosum can be used as a novel biomarker and disease prediction models should be 
established for NPC. The new biomarkers and disease prediction models may be used
for disease risk prediction and the screening of high-risk populations, as well
as for the early noninvasive diagnosis of NPC.

Copyright Â© 2019 Jiang, Li, Zhang, Huang, Zhang, Chen, Shang, Li and Nie.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2019.01346 
PMCID: PMC6908496
PMID: 31867274 

