
1. Anal Biochem. 2020 Aug 1;609:113836. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2020.113836. [Epub ahead
of print]

A microplate screen to estimate metal-binding affinities of metalloproteins.

Diep P(1), Mahadevan R(2), Yakunin AF(3).

Author information: 
(1)BioZone Centre for Applied Bioscience and Bioengineering, Department of
Chemical Engineering and Applied Chemistry, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: patrick_diep@outlook.com.
(2)BioZone Centre for Applied Bioscience and Bioengineering, Department of
Chemical Engineering and Applied Chemistry, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada; Institute of Biomedical Engineering, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)BioZone Centre for Applied Bioscience and Bioengineering, Department of
Chemical Engineering and Applied Chemistry, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada; Centre for Environmental Biotechnology, School of Natural
Sciences, Bangor University, Bangor, United Kingdom.

Solute-binding proteins (SBPs) from ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters play 
crucial roles across all forms of life in transporting compounds against chemical
gradients. Some SBPs have evolved to scavenge metal substrates from the
environment with nanomolar and micromolar affinities (KD). There exist well
established techniques like isothermal titration calorimetry for thoroughly
studying these metalloprotein interactions with metal ions, but they are
low-throughput. For protein libraries comprised of many metalloprotein homologues
and mutants, and for collections of buffer conditions and potential ligands, the 
throughput of these techniques is paramount. In this study, we describe an
improved method termed the microITFQ-LTA and validated it using CjNikZ, a
well-characterized nickel-specific SBP (Ni-BP) from Campylobacter jejuni. We then
demonstrated how the microITFQ-LTA can be designed to screen through a small
collection of buffers and ligands to elucidate the binding profile of a putative 
Ni-BP from Clostridium carboxidivorans that we call CcSBPII. Through this study, 
we showed CcSBPII can bind to various metal ions with KD ranged over 3 orders of 
magnitude. In the presence of l-histidine, CcSBPII could bind to Ni2+ over
2000-fold more tightly, which was 11.6-fold tighter than CjNikZ given the same
ligand.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2020.113836 
PMID: 32750358 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare they have no competing financial interests.

