
1. Glycobiology. 2020 Sep 3. pii: cwaa084. doi: 10.1093/glycob/cwaa084. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Novel Serine/Threonine-O-glycosylation with N-Acetylneuraminic acid and
3-Deoxy-D-manno-octulosonic acid by bacterial flagellin glycosyltransferases.

Khairnar A(1), Sunsunwal S(1), Babu P(2), Ramya TNC(1).

Author information: 
(1)CSIR-Institute of Microbial Technology, Sector 39-A, Chandigarh 160036, India.
(2)Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms, Bengaluru, India.

Some bacterial flagellins are O-glycosylated on surface-exposed Serine/Threonine 
residues with nonulosonic acids such as pseudaminic acid, legionaminic acid, and 
their derivatives by flagellin nonulosonic acid glycosyltransferases, also called
Motility associated factors (Maf). We report here two new glycosidic linkages
previously unknown in any organism, Serine/Threonine-O-linked N-Acetylneuraminic 
acid (Ser/Thr-O-Neu5Ac) and Serine/Threonine-O-linked 3-Deoxy-D-manno-octulosonic
acid (Ser/Thr-O-KDO), both catalysed by Geobacillus kaustophilus Maf and
Clostridium botulinum Maf. We identified these novel glycosidic linkages in
recombinant G. kaustophilus and C. botulinum flagellins that were co-expressed
with their cognate recombinant Maf protein in Escherichia coli strains producing 
the appropriate nucleotide sugar glycosyl donor. Our finding, that both G.
kaustophilus Maf (putative flagellin sialyltransferase) and C. botulinum Maf
(putative flagellin legionaminic acid transferase) catalyzed Neu5Ac and KDO
transfer on to flagellin, indicates that Maf glycosyltransferases display donor
substrate promiscuity. Maf glycosyltransferases have the potential to radically
expand the scope of neoglycopeptide synthesis and posttranslational protein
engineering.

Â© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/glycob/cwaa084 
PMID: 32886756 

