
1. EFSA J. 2020 Jul 2;18(7):e06174. doi: 10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6174. eCollection 2020 
Jul.

Update of the list of QPS-recommended biological agents intentionally added to
food or feed as notified to EFSA 12: suitability of taxonomic units notified to
EFSA until March 2020.

EFSA Panel on Biological Hazards (BIOHAZ), Koutsoumanis K, Allende A,
Alvarez-Ordóñez A, Bolton D, Bover-Cid S, Chemaly M, Davies R, De Cesare A,
Hilbert F, Lindqvist R, Nauta M, Peixe L, Ru G, Simmons M, Skandamis P,
Suffredini E, Cocconcelli PS, Fernández Escámez PS, Maradona MP, Querol A, Suarez
JE, Sundh I, Vlak J, Barizzone F, Hempen M, Herman L.

The qualified presumption of safety (QPS) was developed to provide a generic
safety evaluation for biological agents to support EFSA's Scientific Panels. It
is based on an assessment of the taxonomic identity, the body of knowledge,
safety concerns and antimicrobial resistance. Safety concerns identified for a
taxonomic unit (TU) are where possible to be confirmed at strain or product
level, reflected by 'qualifications'. No new information was found that would
change the previously recommended QPS TUs of the 39 microorganisms notified to
EFSA between October 2019 and March 2020, 33 were excluded, including five
filamentous fungi, five Escherichia coli, two Enterococcus faecium, two
Streptomyces spp. and 19 TUs already evaluated. Six TUs were evaluated.
Akkermansia muciniphila was not recommended for QPS status due to safety
concerns. Clostridium butyricum was not recommended because some strains contain 
pathogenicity factors. This TU was excluded for further QPS evaluation. Galdieria
sulphuraria and Pseudomonas chlororaphis were also rejected due to a lack of body
of knowledge. The QPS status of Corynebacterium ammoniagenes (with the
qualification 'for production purposes only') and of Komagataella pastoris (with 
the qualification 'for enzyme production') was confirmed. In relation to the
taxonomic revision of the Lactobacillus genus, previously designated
Lactobacillus species will be reassigned to the new species and both the old and 
new names will be retained in the QPS list.

© 2020 European Food Safety Authority. EFSA Journal published by John Wiley and
Sons Ltd on behalf of European Food Safety Authority.

DOI: 10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6174 
PMCID: PMC7331632
PMID: 32760463 

