
1. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2020 Apr 1;367(8). pii: fnaa052. doi:
10.1093/femsle/fnaa052.

Metagenome analyses reveal the role of Clostridium perfringens in alfalfa silage 
anaerobic deterioration.

Zheng M(1)(2), Niu D(1), Jiang D(1), Li R(1), Meng L(2), Xu C(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, China.
(2)Beijing Research and Development Center for Grass and Environment, Beijing
Academy of Agriculture and Forestry Sciences, Beijing 100097, China.

The clostridial fermentation caused by the outgrowth of Clostridia was mainly
responsible for the silage anaerobic deterioration. Our previous results showed
that Clostridium perfringens dominated the clostridial community in
poor-fermented alfalfa silage. This study was conducted to further examine the
role of C. perfringens in silage anaerobic deterioration through fermentation
products and the microbial community analyses. Direct-cut alfalfa was ensiled
with C. perfringens contamination (CKC) or with the addition of Lactobacillus
plantarum, sucrose and C. perfringens (LSC). Contamination with C. perfringens
enhanced the clostridial fermentation in CKC silage, as indicated by high
contents of butyric acid, ammonia nitrogen and Clostridia, while LSC silage was
well preserved. The genera Bifidobacterium, Garciella and Clostridium dominated
the bacterial community in CKC silage, while predominate genus was replaced by
Lactobacillus in LSC silage. The clostridial community in CKC silage was
dominated by Garciella sp. (26.9 to 58.1%) and C. tyrobutyricum (24.4 to 48.6%), 
while the relative abundance of C. perfringens was below 5.0%. Therefore, the
effect of Clostridia contamination on ensiling fermentation was dependent on the 
ensilability of the silage material. Garciella sp. and C. tyrobutyricum, rather
than C. perfringens, played dominant role in the clostridial fermentation in CKC 
silage.

Â© FEMS 2020.

DOI: 10.1093/femsle/fnaa052 
PMID: 32188996 

