
1. J Bacteriol. 2020 May 11;202(11). pii: e00039-20. doi: 10.1128/JB.00039-20. Print
2020 May 11.

Strain-Dependent Inhibition of Clostridioides difficile by Commensal Clostridia
Carrying the Bile Acid-Inducible (bai) Operon.

Reed AD(1), Nethery MA(2), Stewart A(3), Barrangou R(2), Theriot CM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Population Health and Pathobiology, College of Veterinary
Medicine, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina, USA.
(2)Department of Food, Bioprocessing and Nutrition Sciences, North Carolina State
University, Raleigh, North Carolina, USA.
(3)Molecular Education, Technology and Research Innovation Center, North Carolina
State University, Raleigh, North Carolina, USA.
(4)Department of Population Health and Pathobiology, College of Veterinary
Medicine, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina, USA
cmtherio@ncsu.edu.

Clostridioides difficile is one of the leading causes of antibiotic-associated
diarrhea. Gut microbiota-derived secondary bile acids and commensal Clostridia
that carry the bile acid-inducible (bai) operon are associated with protection
from C. difficile infection (CDI), although the mechanism is not known. In this
study, we hypothesized that commensal Clostridia are important for providing
colonization resistance against C. difficile due to their ability to produce
secondary bile acids, as well as potentially competing against C. difficile for
similar nutrients. To test this hypothesis, we examined the abilities of four
commensal Clostridia carrying the bai operon (Clostridium scindens VPI 12708, C. 
scindens ATCC 35704, Clostridium hiranonis, and Clostridium hylemonae) to convert
cholate (CA) to deoxycholate (DCA) in vitro, and we determined whether the amount
of DCA produced was sufficient to inhibit the growth of a clinically relevant C. 
difficile strain. We also investigated the competitive relationships between
these commensals and C. difficile using an in vitro coculture system. We found
that inhibition of C. difficile growth by commensal Clostridia supplemented with 
CA was strain dependent, correlated with the production of ∼2 mM DCA, and
increased the expression of bai operon genes. We also found that C. difficile was
able to outcompete all four commensal Clostridia in an in vitro coculture system.
These studies are instrumental in understanding the relationship between
commensal Clostridia and C. difficile in the gut, which is vital for designing
targeted bacterial therapeutics. Future studies dissecting the regulation of the 
bai operon in vitro and in vivo and how this affects CDI will be
important.IMPORTANCE Commensal Clostridia carrying the bai operon, such as C.
scindens, have been associated with protection against CDI; however, the
mechanism for this protection is unknown. Herein, we show four commensal
Clostridia that carry the bai operon and affect C. difficile growth in a
strain-dependent manner, with and without the addition of cholate. Inhibition of 
C. difficile by commensals correlated with the efficient conversion of cholate to
deoxycholate, a secondary bile acid that inhibits C. difficile germination,
growth, and toxin production. Competition studies also revealed that C. difficile
was able to outcompete the commensals in an in vitro coculture system. These
studies are instrumental in understanding the relationship between commensal
Clostridia and C. difficile in the gut, which is vital for designing targeted
bacterial therapeutics.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.00039-20 
PMCID: PMC7221253 [Available on 2020-11-11]
PMID: 32179626 

