
1. Adv Mater. 2020 Oct 1:e2004529. doi: 10.1002/adma.202004529. [Epub ahead of
print]

Prebiotics-Encapsulated Probiotic Spores Regulate Gut Microbiota and Suppress
Colon Cancer.

Zheng DW(1), Li RQ(1)(2), An JX(1), Xie TQ(1), Han ZY(1), Xu R(1), Fang Y(1),
Zhang XZ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Biomedical Polymers of Ministry of Education & Department of
Chemistry, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430072, P. R. China.
(2)Department of Radiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong
University, Xi'an, 710061, P. R. China.

While microbial-based therapy has been considered as an effective strategy for
treating diseases such as colon cancer, its safety remains the biggest challenge.
Here, probiotics and prebiotics, which possess ideal biocompatibility and are
extensively used as additives in food and pharmaceutical products, are combined
to construct a safe microbiota-modulating material. Through the host-guest
chemistry between commercial Clostridium butyricum and chemically modified
prebiotic dextran, prebiotics-encapsulated probiotic spores (spores-dex) are
prepared. It is found that spores-dex can specifically enrich in colon cancers
after oral administration. In the lesion, dextran is fermented by C. butyricum,
and thereby produces anti-cancer short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs). Additionally,
spores-dex regulate the gut microbiota, augment the abundance of SCFA-producing
bacteria (e.g., Eubacterium and Roseburia), and markedly increase the overall
richness of microbiota. In subcutaneous and orthotopic tumor models, drug-loaded 
spores-dex inhibit tumor growth up to 89% and 65%, respectively. Importantly, no 
obvious adverse effect is found. The work sheds light on the possibility of using
a highly safe strategy to regulate gut microbiota, and provides a promising
avenue for treating various gastrointestinal diseases.

Â© 2020 Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/adma.202004529 
PMID: 33006175 

