
1. Bioresour Technol. 2020 Apr;301:122764. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.122764. Epub
2020 Jan 10.

Direct conversion of untreated cane molasses into butyric acid by engineered
Clostridium tyrobutyricum.

Guo X(1), Fu H(1), Feng J(1), Hu J(1), Wang J(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biology and Biological Engineering, South China University of
Technology, Guangzhou 510006, China.
(2)School of Biology and Biological Engineering, South China University of
Technology, Guangzhou 510006, China. Electronic address: jufwang@scut.edu.cn.

The sucrose metabolic genes (scrA, scrB and scrK) from C. acetobutylicum ATCC 824
were successfully overexpressed in C. tyrobutyricum ATCC 25755, endowing it with 
the ability to co-utilize sucrose, fructose and glucose in the cane molasses. As 
a result, the engineering strain C. tyrobutyricum ATCC 25755/scrBAK produced
18.07 g/L and 18.98 g/L butyric acid when sucrose and cane molasses were used as 
the carbon source, respectively. Furthermore, the medium composition and initial 
cane molasses concentration were optimized to make full use of the untreated cane
molasses. Based on these results, 45.71 g/L butyric acid with a yield of 0.39 g/g
was obtained in fed-batch fermentation, and the feedstock cost of using untreated
cane molasses was decreased by ~47% when compared with the conventional glucose
fermentation. This study demonstrated the potential application of C.
tyrobutyricum ATCC 25755/scrBAK for economic butyric acid production from
untreated cane molasses.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.122764 
PMID: 31958691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

