
1. J Immunol. 2020 Sep 28. pii: ji2000244. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.2000244. [Epub
ahead of print]

RIPK3 Promotes Mefv Expression and Pyrin Inflammasome Activation via Modulation
of mTOR Signaling.

Sharma D(1), Malik A(1), Balakrishnan A(1), Malireddi RKS(1), Kanneganti TD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, TN
38105.
(2)Department of Immunology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, TN
38105 thirumala-devi.kanneganti@stjude.org.

Mutations in MEFV, the gene encoding pyrin in humans, are associated with the
autoinflammatory disorder familial Mediterranean fever. Pyrin is an innate sensor
that assembles into an inflammasome complex in response to Rho-modifying toxins, 
including Clostridium difficile toxins A and B. Cell death pathways have been
shown to intersect with and modulate inflammasome activation, thereby affecting
host defense. Using bone marrow-derived macrophages and a murine model of
peritonitis, we show in this study that receptor-interacting protein kinase
(RIPK) 3 impacts pyrin inflammasome activation independent of its role in
necroptosis. RIPK3 was instead required for transcriptional upregulation of Mefv 
through negative control of the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway
and independent of alterations in MAPK and NF-κB signaling. RIPK3 did not affect 
pyrin dephosphorylation associated with inflammasome activation. We further
demonstrate that inhibition of mTOR was sufficient to promote Mefv expression and
pyrin inflammasome activation, highlighting the cross-talk between the mTOR
pathway and regulation of the pyrin inflammasome. Our study reveals a novel
interaction between molecules involved in cell death and the mTOR pathway to
regulate the pyrin inflammasome, which can be harnessed for therapeutic
interventions.

Copyright © 2020 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.2000244 
PMID: 32989095 

