
1. Hand (N Y). 2020 Jun 7:1558944720919923. doi: 10.1177/1558944720919923. [Epub
ahead of print]

Return-to-Function Following Treatment of Dupuytren Contracture With Collagenase 
Clostridium Histolyticum Versus Fasciectomy.

Divino VM(1), DeKoven M(1), Hurley D(2).

Author information: 
(1)IQVIA, Falls Church, VA, USA.
(2)Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc., Malvern, PA, USA.

Background: Dupuytren contracture (DC) treatment with collagenase clostridium
histolyticum (CCH) has lower associated treatment costs than fasciectomy, but
real-world, postprocedure return-to-function data are limited. Methods: This
retrospective study used a US claims database and included adults treated for DC 
with CCH or fasciectomy (first treatment = index date), who had continuous health
plan enrollment ≥360 days preindex and ≥90 days postindex (ie, 90-day follow-up).
Analgesic use and physical therapy (PT) and occupational therapy (OT) visits
during the follow-up were used as surrogate markers for return-to-function.
Results: Overall, 1654 and 2745 patients were included in the CCH and fasciectomy
cohorts, respectively. A significantly lower percentage of patients in the CCH
versus fasciectomy cohort used opioid analgesics (32.3% vs 82.7%; P < .0001),
used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (8.6% vs 17.2%; P < .0001), or had ≥1
DC-specific PT or OT visit during follow-up (PT, 38.9% vs 45.3% [P < .0001]; OT, 
32.8% vs 38.0% [P = .0006]). The mean number of DC-specific PT and OT visits (PT,
2.5 vs 6.4 [P < .0001]; OT, 1.4 vs 1.9 [P < .0001]) per patient was significantly
lower in the CCH versus fasciectomy cohort. Conclusions: This analysis using
surrogate markers suggests that CCH treatment may allow earlier
return-to-function than fasciectomy in adults treated for DC.

DOI: 10.1177/1558944720919923 
PMID: 32507053 

