
1. PLoS Pathog. 2020 Aug 31;16(8):e1008836. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1008836.
eCollection 2020 Aug.

Anthrax toxin component, Protective Antigen, protects insects from bacterial
infections.

Alameh S(1), Bartolo G(1), O'Brien S(1), Henderson EA(1), Gonzalez LO(1),
Hartmann S(1), Klimko CP(2), Shoe JL(2), Cote CK(2), Grill LK(1), Levitin A(1),
Martchenko Shilman M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Henry E. Riggs School of Applied Life Sciences, Keck Graduate Institute,
Claremont, California, United States of America.
(2)Bacteriology Division, US Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Fort Detrick, Frederick, Maryland, United States of America.

Anthrax is a major zoonotic disease of wildlife, and in places like West Africa, 
it can be caused by Bacillus anthracis in arid nonsylvatic savannahs, and by B.
cereus biovar anthracis (Bcbva) in sylvatic rainforests. Bcbva-caused anthrax has
been implicated in as much as 38% of mortality in rainforest ecosystems, where
insects can enhance the transmission of anthrax-causing bacteria. While anthrax
is well-characterized in mammals, its transmission by insects points to an
unidentified anthrax-resistance mechanism in its vectors. In mammals, a secreted 
anthrax toxin component, 83 kDa Protective Antigen (PA83), binds to cell-surface 
receptors and is cleaved by furin into an evolutionary-conserved PA20 and a
pore-forming PA63 subunits. We show that PA20 increases the resistance of
Drosophila flies and Culex mosquitoes to bacterial challenges, without directly
affecting the bacterial growth. We further show that the PA83 loop known to be
cleaved by furin to release PA20 from PA63 is, in part, responsible for the
PA20-mediated protection. We found that PA20 binds directly to the Toll
activating peptidoglycan-recognition protein-SA (PGRP-SA) and that the Toll/NF-κB
pathway is necessary for the PA20-mediated protection of infected flies. This
effect of PA20 on innate immunity may also exist in mammals: we show that PA20
binds to human PGRP-SA ortholog. Moreover, the constitutive activity of Imd/NF-κB
pathway in MAPKK Dsor1 mutant flies is sufficient to confer the protection from
bacterial infections in a manner that is independent of PA20 treatment. Lastly,
Clostridium septicum alpha toxin protects flies from anthrax-causing bacteria,
showing that other pathogens may help insects resist anthrax. The mechanism of
anthrax resistance in insects has direct implications on insect-mediated anthrax 
transmission for wildlife management, and with potential for applications, such
as reducing the sensitivity of pollinating insects to bacterial pathogens.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1008836 
PMCID: PMC7458312
PMID: 32866212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

