
1. Bioresour Technol. 2019 Nov;292:121969. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2019.121969. Epub
2019 Aug 8.

Production of n-butanol from cassava bagasse hydrolysate by engineered
Clostridium tyrobutyricum overexpressing adhE2: Kinetics and cost analysis.

Huang J(1), Du Y(2), Bao T(2), Lin M(3), Wang J(4), Yang ST(5).

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Science, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou
310014, China; William G. Lowrie Department of Chemical and Biomolecular
Engineering, The Ohio State University, 151 West Woodruff Avenue, Columbus, OH
43210, USA.
(2)William G. Lowrie Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, The
Ohio State University, 151 West Woodruff Avenue, Columbus, OH 43210, USA.
(3)Bioprocessing Innovative Company, 4734 Bridle Path Ct., Dublin, OH 43017, USA.
(4)School of Bioscience and Bioengineering, South China University of Technology,
Guangzhou 510006, China.
(5)William G. Lowrie Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, The
Ohio State University, 151 West Woodruff Avenue, Columbus, OH 43210, USA.
Electronic address: yang.15@osu.edu.

The production of biofuels such as butanol is usually limited by the availability
of inexpensive raw materials and high substrate cost. Using food crops as
feedstock in the biorefinery industry has been criticized for its competition
with food supply, causing food shortage and increased food prices. In this study,
cassava bagasse as an abundant, renewable, and inexpensive byproduct from the
cassava starch industry was used for n-butanol production. Cassava bagasse
hydrolysate containing mainly glucose was obtained after treatments with dilute
acid and enzymes (glucoamylases and cellulases) and then supplemented with corn
steep liquor for use as substrate in repeated-batch fermentation with engineered 
Clostridium tyrobutyricum CtΔack-adhE2 in a fibrous-bed bioreactor. Stable
butanol production with high titer (>15.0 g/L), yield (>0.30 g/g), and
productivity (~0.3 g/L∙h) was achieved, demonstrating the feasibility of an
economically competitive process for n-butanol production from cassava bagasse
for industrial application.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2019.121969 
PMID: 31415989  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

