
1. J Biotechnol. 2020 Jun 20;323:17-23. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.06.015. [Epub
ahead of print]

Biological hydrogen production from palm oil mill effluent (POME) by anaerobic
consortia and Clostridium beijerinckii.

Rosa D(1), Medeiros ABP(2), Martinez-Burgos WJ(1), do Nascimento JR Junior(1), de
Carvalho JC(1), Sydney EB(3), Soccol CR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioprocess Engineering and Biotechnology, Universidade Federal
do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil.
(2)Department of Bioprocess Engineering and Biotechnology, Universidade Federal
do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil. Electronic address: adrianebpm@ufpr.br.
(3)Department of Bioprocess Engineering and Biotechnology, Federal University of 
Technology - Paraná, Ponta Grossa, Brazil.

Palm oil mill effluent (POME) was tested as a substrate to produce hydrogen by
dark fermentation. Two microbial consortia and a pure culture of Clostridium
beijerinckii (ATCC 8260) were cultured anaerobically in raw, diluted and
hydrolyzed POME to compare biohydrogen production yields in all three media.
Experiments were done in 15 mL Hungate tubes containing 5 mL of medium and 1 mL
of inoculum. When Clostridium beijerinckii was cultivated at 30 °C in the
hydrolyzed POME (P003), containing 7.5 g/L of sucrose, during 8 days of
fermentation and 20 % of the inoculum, the maximum biohydrogen production yield
was 4.62 LH2/Lmed. Consortium C3 also showed the best production in hydrolyzed
POME while consortium C6 achieved its maximum production in raw POME. This
effluent is a potential substrate for biohydrogen production.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.06.015 
PMID: 32569792 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

