
1. PLoS One. 2020 Mar 19;15(3):e0218302. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0218302.
eCollection 2020.

Lactic acid containing polymers produced in engineered Sinorhizobium meliloti and
Pseudomonas putida.

Tran TT(1), Charles TC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, ON, Canada.

This study demonstrates that novel polymer production can be achieved by
introducing pTAM, a broad-host-range plasmid expressing codon-optimized genes
encoding Clostridium propionicum propionate CoA transferase (PctCp, Pct532) and a
modified Pseudomonas sp. MBEL 6-19 polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) synthase 1
(PhaC1Ps6-19, PhaC1400), into phaC mutant strains of the native polymer producers
Sinorhizobium meliloti and Pseudomonas putida. Both phenotypic analysis and gas
chromatography analysis indicated the synthesis and accumulation of biopolymers
in S. meliloti and P. putida strains. Expression in S. meliloti resulted in the
production of PLA homopolymer up to 3.2% dried cell weight (DCW). The
quaterpolymer P (3HB-co-LA-co-3HHx-co-3HO) was produced by expression in P.
putida. The P. putida phaC mutant strain produced this type of polymer the most
efficiently with polymer content of 42% DCW when cultured in defined media with
the addition of sodium octanoate. This is the first report, to our knowledge, of 
the production of a range of different biopolymers using the same plasmid-based
system in different backgrounds. In addition, it is the first time that the novel
polymer (P(3HB-co-LA-co-3HHx-co-3HO)), has been reported being produced in
bacteria.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0218302 
PMCID: PMC7082056
PMID: 32191710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

