
1. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2020 Jul;117(7):2187-2197. doi: 10.1002/bit.27354. Epub 2020
Apr 21.

Biosynthesis and characterization of
poly(d-lactate-co-glycolate-co-4-hydroxybutyrate).

Choi SY(1), Chae TU(1)(2), Shin J(3), Im JA(1)(4), Lee SY(1)(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Metabolic and Biomolecular Engineering National Research Laboratory, Systems
Metabolic Engineering and Systems Healthcare Cross-Generation Collaborative
Laboratory, Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering (BK21 Plus
Program), Institute for the BioCentury, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology (KAIST), Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
(2)Applied Science Research Institute, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology (KAIST), Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
(3)Center for Bio-based Chemistry, Green Chemistry and Engineering Division,
Korea Research Institute of Chemical Technology, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, Republic of
Korea.
(4)BioProcess Engineering Research Center and Bioinformatics Research Center,
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, 
Republic of Korea.

Poly(d-lactate-co-glycolate-co-4-hydroxybutyrate) [poly(d-LA-co-GA-co-4HB)] and
poly(d-lactate-co-glycolate-co-4-hydroxybutyrate-co-d-2-hydroxybutyrate)
[poly(d-LA-co-GA-co-4HB-co-d-2HB)] are of interest for their potential
applications as new biomedical polymers. Here we report their enhanced production
by metabolically engineered Escherichia coli. To examine the polymer properties, 
poly(d-LA-co-GA-co-4HB) polymers having various monomer compositions
(3.4-41.0mol% of 4HB) were produced by culturing the engineered E. coli strain
expressing xylBC from Caulobacter crescentus, evolved phaC1 from Pseudomonas sp. 
MBEL 6-19 (phaC1437), and evolved pct from Clostridium propionicum (pct540) in a 
medium supplemented with sodium 4HB at various concentrations. To produce these
polymers without 4HB feeding, the 4HB biosynthetic pathway was additionally
constructed by expressing Clostridium kluyveri sucD and 4hbD. The engineered E.
coli expressing xylBC, phaC1437, pct540, sucD, and 4hbD successfully produced
poly(d-LA-co-GA-co-4HB-co-d-2HB) and poly(d-LA-co-GA-co-4HB) from glucose and
xylose. Through modulating the expression levels of the heterologous genes and
performing fed-batch cultures, the polymer content and titer could be increased
to 65.76wt% and 6.19g/L, respectively, while the monomer fractions in the
polymers could be altered as desired. The polymers produced, in particular, the
4HB-rich polymers showed viscous and sticky properties suggesting that they might
be used as medical adhesives.

Â© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.27354 
PMID: 32281652 

