
1. Plant Cell Rep. 2020 Oct;39(10):1317-1329. doi: 10.1007/s00299-020-02566-4. Epub 
2020 Jul 10.

High-level production in a plant system of a thermostable carbonic anhydrase and 
its immobilization on microcrystalline cellulose beads for CO2 capture.

Kumari M(1), Lee J(1), Lee DW(1)(2), Hwang I(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Integrative Biosciences and Biotechnology, Pohang University of
Science and Technology, Pohang, 37673, South Korea.
(2)Department of Bioenergy Science and Technology, Chonnam National University,
Gwangju, 61186, South Korea.
(3)Division of Integrative Biosciences and Biotechnology, Pohang University of
Science and Technology, Pohang, 37673, South Korea. ihhwang@postech.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Life Sciences, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang, 37673, South Korea. ihhwang@postech.ac.kr.

KEY MESSAGE: Plant-produced SazCA and its application to CO2 capture.
Technologies that rely on chemical absorption or physical adsorption have been
developed to capture CO2 from industrial flue gases and sequester it at storage
sites. Carbonic anhydrases (CAs), metalloenzymes, that catalyze the reversible
hydration of CO2 have recently received attention as biocatalysts in the capture 
of CO2 from flue gases, but their cost presents a major obstacle for use at an
industrial scale. This cost, however, can be reduced either by producing a
long-lasting enzyme suitable for CO2 capture or by lowering production costs.
High-level expression, easy purification, and immobilization of CAs from
Sulfurihydrogenibium azorense (SazCA) were investigated in a plant system. Fusion
of the 60-amino acid-long ectodomain (M-domain) of the human receptor-type
tyrosine-protein phosphatase C increased the levels of SazCA accumulation. Fusion
of the cellulose-binding module (CBM3) from Clostridium thermocellum resulted in 
tight binding of recombinant protein to microcrystalline cellulose beads,
enabling easy purification. The chimeric fusion protein, BMC-SazCA, which
consisted of SazCA with the M and CBM3 domains, was expressed in tobacco
(Nicotiana benthamiana), giving a recombinant protein yield in leaf extracts of
350Â mg/kg fresh weight. BMC-SazCA produced in planta was active in the presence
of various chemicals used in CO2 capture. Immobilization of BMC-SazCA on the
surface of microcrystalline cellulose beads extended its heat stability, allowing
its reuse in multiple rounds of the CO2 hydration reaction. These results suggest
that production of SazCA in plants has great potential for CA-based CO2
sequestration and mineralization.

DOI: 10.1007/s00299-020-02566-4 
PMID: 32651706 

