
1. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2020 Jul;117(7):2223-2236. doi: 10.1002/bit.27360. Epub 2020
May 8.

Endogenous carbohydrate esterases of Clostridium thermocellum are identified and 
disrupted for enhanced isobutyl acetate production from cellulose.

Seo H(1)(2), Nicely PN(1), Trinh CT(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, The University of
Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee.
(2)Center of Bioenergy Innovation, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee.

Medium-chain esters are versatile chemicals with broad applications as flavors,
fragrances, solvents, and potential drop-in biofuels. Currently, these esters are
largely produced by the conventional chemical process that uses harsh operating
conditions and requires high energy input. Alternatively, the microbial
conversion route has recently emerged as a promising platform for sustainable and
renewable ester production. The ester biosynthesis pathways can utilize either
lipases or alcohol acyltransferase (AAT), but the AAT-dependent pathway is more
thermodynamically favorable in an aqueous fermentation environment. Even though a
cellulolytic thermophile Clostridium thermocellum harboring an AAT-dependent
pathway has recently been engineered for direct conversion of lignocellulosic
biomass into esters, the production is not efficient. One potential bottleneck is
the ester degradation caused by the endogenous carbohydrate esterases (CEs) whose
functional roles are poorly understood. The challenge is to identify and disrupt 
CEs that can alleviate ester degradation while not negatively affecting the
efficient and robust capability of C. thermocellum for lignocellulosic biomass
deconstruction. In this study, by using bioinformatics, comparative genomics, and
enzymatic analysis to screen a library of CEs, we identified and disrupted the
two most critical CEs, Clo1313_0613 and Clo1313_0693, that significantly
contribute to isobutyl acetate degradation in C. thermocellum. We demonstrated
that an engineered esterase-deficient C. thermocellum strain not only reduced
ester hydrolysis but also improved isobutyl acetate production while maintaining 
effective cellulose assimilation.

Â© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.27360 
PMID: 32333614 

