
1. Environ Res. 2020 Jul;186:109580. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2020.109580. Epub 2020
Apr 28.

A novel integrated process to convert cellulose and hemicellulose in rice straw
to biobutanol.

Wu J(1), Dong L(1), Liu B(1), Xing D(1), Zhou C(1), Wang Q(1), Wu X(1), Feng
L(1), Cao G(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resources and Environment, School of
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, 150090, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resources and Environment, School of
Environment, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, 150090, China. Electronic
address: caogl@hit.edu.cn.

A novel integrated process was established in this study to produce butanol from 
rice straw. In the first pretreatment, an alternative NaOH/Urea preatment
operated at -12 oC efficiently removed 10.9 g lignin and preserved 91.54%
cellulose and hemicellulose in 100 g rice straw. Subsequently, crude cellulase
produced from Trichoderma viride was used to convert pretreated rice straw to
mono-sugars for fermentation. The yields of glucose, xylose and arabiose obtained
from 100 g rice straw were 31 g, 13.4 g and 0.48 g, respectively, resulting in a 
69.45% sacchariﬁcation efficiency of crude enzyme. Finally, to alleviate the
carbon catabolite repression (CCR) and enhance butanol production, the coculture 
system of Clostridium beijerinckii and Saccharomyces cerevisiae was applied.
Compared to monoculture of C. beijerinckii F-6, more sugars were consumed,
especially the reduction rate of xylose reached to 81.87%, 32.99% higher than
that in monoculture system. With more substrate facilitied into metabolism, the
butanol concentration reached to 10.62 g/L corresponding to 0.28 g/g substrate,
115.38% higher than that in monoculture system. Overall, this integrated process 
was a low-energy consumption and eﬃcient method for butanol production from rice 
straw.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2020.109580 
PMID: 32668543 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

