
1. mBio. 2020 Aug 11;11(4). pii: e01668-20. doi: 10.1128/mBio.01668-20.

A Novel High-Potency Tetanus Vaccine.

Przedpelski A(1), Tepp WH(2), Pellett S(2), Johnson EA(2), Barbieri JT(3).

Author information: 
(1)Medical College of Wisconsin, Department of Microbiology and Immunology,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA.
(2)University of Wisconsin-Madison, Department of Bacteriology, Madison,
Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Medical College of Wisconsin, Department of Microbiology and Immunology,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA jtb01@mcw.edu.

Chemically inactivated tetanus toxoid (CITT) is clinically effective and widely
used. However, CITT is a crude nonmalleable vaccine that contains hundreds of
Clostridium tetani proteins, and the active component is present in variable and 
sometimes minor percentages of vaccine mass. Recombinant production of a
genetically inactivated tetanus vaccine offers an opportunity to replace and
improve the current tetanus vaccine. Previous studies showed the feasibility of
engineering full-length tetanus toxin (TT) in Escherichia coli In the present
study, full-length TT was engineered with eight individual amino acid mutations
(8MTT) to inactivate catalysis, translocation, and host receptor-binding
functions, retaining 99.4% amino acid identity to native tetanus toxin. 8MTT
purified as a 150-kDa single-chain protein, which trypsin nicked to a 100-kDa
heavy chain and 50-kDa light chain. The 8MTT was not toxic for outbred mice and
was >50 million-fold less toxic than native TT. Relative to CITT, 8MTT
vaccination elicited a strong immune response and showed good vaccine potency
against TT challenge. The strength of the immune response to both vaccines varied
among individual outbred mice. These data support 8MTT as a candidate vaccine
against tetanus and a malleable candidate conjugate vaccine platform to enhance
the immune response to polysaccharides and other macromolecular molecules to
facilitate a rapid response to emerging microbial pathogens.IMPORTANCE Chemical
inactivation is a clinically effective mechanism to detoxify protein toxins to
produce vaccines against microbial infections and to serve as a platform for
production of conjugate polysaccharide vaccines. This method is widely used for
the production of protein toxin vaccines, including tetanus toxoid. However,
chemical modification alters the protein structure with unknown effects on
antigenicity. Here, a recombinant full-length tetanus toxin (TT) is engineered
with 8 mutations (8MTT) that inactivate three toxin functions: catalysis,
translocation, and receptor binding. 8MTT is nontoxic and elicits a potent immune
response in outbred mice. 8MTT also represents a malleable platform for the
production of conjugate vaccines, which can facilitate a rapid vaccine response
against emerging microbial pathogens.

Copyright Â© 2020 Przedpelski et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mBio.01668-20 
PMCID: PMC7439469
PMID: 32788381 

