
1. Toxicon. 2020 Sep 10;187:163-170. doi: 10.1016/j.toxicon.2020.09.003. [Epub ahead
of print]

Long-term efficacy and safety of a new botulinum toxin type A preparation in
mouse gastrocnemius muscle.

Na J(1), Lee E(2), Kim YJ(3), Choi MJ(3), Kim SY(2), Nam JS(4), Yun BJ(4), Kim
BJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, College of Medicine, Chung-Ang University, Seoul,
06974, South Korea; Department of Life Science, Sogang University, Seoul, 04107, 
South Korea.
(2)Department of Dermatology, College of Medicine, Chung-Ang University, Seoul,
06974, South Korea; Department of Medicine, Graduate School, Chung-Ang
University, Seoul, 06973, South Korea.
(3)Department of Dermatology, College of Medicine, Chung-Ang University, Seoul,
06974, South Korea.
(4)JETEMA Co., Ltd., Seoul, 06153, South Korea.
(5)Department of Dermatology, College of Medicine, Chung-Ang University, Seoul,
06974, South Korea; Department of Medicine, Graduate School, Chung-Ang
University, Seoul, 06973, South Korea. Electronic address: beomjoon74@gmail.com.

A new type A botulinum toxin (BoNT/A) preparation, JTM201 (NCBI chromosomal DNA
ID: CP046450), has been developed, which comprises 900-kDa complexed toxin
purified from Clostridium botulinum (strain: NCTC13319), but its safety and
efficacy have not yet been evaluated. The purpose of this study was to evaluate
the long-term efficacy and safety of JTM201 at different concentrations in
comparison to another commercially available BoNT/A product, Botox®
(onabotulinumtoxin A, ONA), using a mouse model. The LD50 of JTM201 was similar
to that of ONA, but the intrinsic activity of JTM201 was higher than that of ONA.
Functional recovery of the nerves and muscles in SKH-1 mice after administration 
of the two BoNT/A preparations (JTM201 and ONA) to the right gastrocnemius muscle
was observed over 24 weeks. In addition, JTM201 did not induce any skin or muscle
inflammatory response in 24 weeks. Paralysis induced by neurotransmitter blockade
after JTM201 administration was comparable to that of ONA treatment. Both muscle 
weight and volume decreased in a concentration-dependent manner following JTM201 
or ONA toxin injection until week 4. Reduced muscle fiber size due to atrophy and
consequent fibrosis were detected following injection of JTM201 or ONA. Moreover,
we assessed the extent of diffusion of JTM201 or ONA to the tibialis anterior and
quadriceps femoris muscles, demonstrating limited diffusion to off-target
muscles. In conclusion, JTM201 demonstrated long-term efficacy and safety
equivalent to those of ONA based on compound muscle action potential, muscle
volume, and histology analyses. These data suggest that JTM201 is a new BoNT/A
formulation with safety and efficacy comparable to those of ONA.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxicon.2020.09.003 
PMID: 32918927 

