
1. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2020 Jul 1;367(14). pii: fnaa103. doi:
10.1093/femsle/fnaa103.

Genome sequence analysis of the temperate bacteriophage TBP2 of the solvent
producer Clostridium saccharoperbutylacetonicum N1-4 (HMT, ATCC 27021).

Schüler MA(1), Stegmann BA(2), Poehlein A(1), Daniel R(1), Dürre P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Genomic and Applied Microbiology & Göttingen Genomics Laboratory, Georg-August
University, Grisebachstr. 8, D-37077 Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Institut für Mikrobiologie und Biotechnologie, Universität Ulm,
Albert-Einstein-Allee 11, D-89081, Ulm, Germany.

The genus Clostridium consists of a diverse group of pathogenic and
non-pathogenic bacteria. The non-pathogenic clostridia contain several
solventogenic members of industrial importance, such as Clostridium
acetobutylicum or C. beijerinckii. In the process of acetone-butanol-ethanol
(ABE) fermentation, these strains are used in large scale fermentation plants
since almost 100 years. Soon after establishment of the first plants, the
fermentation processes suffered from different bacteriophage infections
worldwide. A limited set of studies addressing bacteriophages in solventogenic
clostridia have been conducted since then. In this study, we present the genome
sequence of the temperate bacteriophage TBP2 of the solventogenic strain C.
saccharoperbutylacetonicum N1-4 (HMT) that is used for ABE fermentation. The
phage genome consists of 38 039 bp and includes 48 open reading frames. Sequence 
analysis indicates that the genome encloses random parts of the bacterial genome 
in addition to its own DNA. It represents the first fully sequenced genome of a
temperate bacteriophage infecting solventogenic clostridia.

© FEMS 2020.

DOI: 10.1093/femsle/fnaa103 
PMID: 32614389 

