
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Sep 30. doi: 10.1007/s00253-020-10931-2. [Epub
ahead of print]

Sequential fed-batch fermentation of 1,3-propanediol from glycerol by Clostridium
butyricum DL07.

Wang XL(1), Zhou JJ(1), Shen JT(1), Zheng YF(1), Sun YQ(1), Xiu ZL(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Bioengineering, Dalian University of Technology, Dalian, 116024,
Liaoning Province, People's Republic of China.
(2)School of Bioengineering, Dalian University of Technology, Dalian, 116024,
Liaoning Province, People's Republic of China. zhlxiu@dlut.edu.cn.

The demand for 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) has increased sharply due to its role as
a monomer for the synthesis of polytrimethylene terephthalate (PTT). Although
Clostridium butyricum is considered to be one of the most promising bioproducers 
for 1,3-PDO, its low productivity hinders its application on industrial scale
because of the longer time needed for anaerobic cultivation. In this study, an
excellent C. butyricum (DL07) strain was obtained with high-level titer and
productivity of 1,3-PDO, i.e., 104.8 g/L and 3.38 g/(L•h) vs. 94.2 g/L and
3.04 g/(L•h) using pure or crude glycerol as substrate in fed-batch fermentation,
respectively. Furthermore, a novel sequential fed-batch fermentation was
investigated, in which the next bioreactor was inoculated by C. butyricum DL07
cells growing at exponential phase in the prior bioreactor. It could run steadily
for at least eight cycles. The average concentration of 1,3-PDO in eight cycles
was 85 g/L with the average productivity of 3.1 g/(L•h). The sequential fed-batch
fermentation could achieve semi-continuous production of 1,3-PDO with higher
productivity than repeated fed-batch fermentation and would greatly contribute to
the industrial production of 1,3-PDO by C. butyricum. KEY POINTS: • A novel C.
butyricum strain was screened to produce 104.8 g/L 1,3-PDO from glycerol. • Corn 
steep liquor powder was used as a cheap nitrogen source for 1,3-PDO production. •
A sequential fed-batch fermentation process was established for 1,3-PDO
production. • An automatic glycerol feeding strategy was applied in the
production of 1,3-PDO.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10931-2 
PMID: 32997204 

