
1. Toxins (Basel). 2020 Jan 24;12(2). pii: E81. doi: 10.3390/toxins12020081.

Adult Intestinal Toxemia Botulism.

Harris RA(1), Anniballi F(2), Austin JW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Botulism Reference Service for Canada, Microbiology Research Division, Bureau 
of Microbial Hazards, Food Directorate, Health Products and Food Branch, Ottawa, 
ON K1A 0K9, Canada.
(2)National Reference Centre for Botulism, Microbiological Foodborne Hazard Unit,
Department of Food Safety, Nutrition and Veterinary Public Health, Istituto
Superiore di Sanit√†, viale Regina Elena, 29900161 Rome, Italy.

Intoxication with botulinum neurotoxin can occur through various routes.
Foodborne botulism results after consumption of food in which botulinum
neurotoxin-producing clostridia (i.e., Clostridium botulinum or strains of
Clostridium butyricum type E or Clostridium baratii type F) have replicated and
produced botulinum neurotoxin. Infection of a wound with C. botulinum and in situ
production of botulinum neurotoxin leads to wound botulism. Colonization of the
intestine by neurotoxigenic clostridia, with consequent production of botulinum
toxin in the intestine, leads to intestinal toxemia botulism. When this occurs in
an infant, it is referred to as infant botulism, whereas in adults or children
over 1 year of age, it is intestinal colonization botulism. Predisposing factors 
for intestinal colonization in children or adults include previous bowel or
gastric surgery, anatomical bowel abnormalities, Crohn's disease, inflammatory
bowel disease, antimicrobial therapy, or foodborne botulism. Intestinal
colonization botulism is confirmed by detection of botulinum toxin in serum
and/or stool, or isolation of neurotoxigenic clostridia from the stool, without
finding a toxic food. Shedding of neurotoxigenic clostridia in the stool may
occur for a period of several weeks. Adult intestinal botulism occurs as isolated
cases, and may go undiagnosed, contributing to the low reported incidence of this
rare disease.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins12020081 
PMCID: PMC7076759
PMID: 31991691 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

