
1. J Vet Diagn Invest. 2020 Mar;32(2):192-202. doi: 10.1177/1040638719886567. Epub
2019 Nov 18.

Pathobiology and diagnosis of clostridial hepatitis in animals.

Navarro MA(1), Uzal FA(1).

Author information: 
(1)California Animal Health and Food Safety Laboratory System, School of
Veterinary Medicine, University of California-Davis, San Bernardino, CA (Navarro,
Uzal).

Clostridia can cause hepatic damage in domestic livestock, and wild and
laboratory animals. Clostridium novyi type B causes infectious necrotic hepatitis
(INH) in sheep and less frequently in other species. Spores of C. novyi type B
can be present in soil; after ingestion, they reach the liver via portal
circulation where they persist in phagocytic cells. Following liver damage,
frequently caused by migrating parasites, local anaerobic conditions allow
germination of the clostridial spores and production of toxins. C. novyi type B
alpha toxin causes necrotizing hepatitis and extensive edema, congestion, and
hemorrhage in multiple organs. Clostridium haemolyticum causes bacillary
hemoglobinuria (BH) in cattle, sheep, and rarely, horses. Beta toxin is the main 
virulence factor of C. haemolyticum, causing hepatic necrosis and hemolysis.
Clostridium piliforme, the causal agent of Tyzzer disease (TD), is the only
gram-negative and obligate intracellular pathogenic clostridia. TD occurs in
multiple species, but it is more frequent in foals, lagomorphs, and laboratory
animals. The mode of transmission is fecal-oral, with ingestion of spores from a 
fecal-contaminated environment. In affected animals, C. piliforme proliferates in
the intestinal mucosa, resulting in necrosis, and then disseminates to the liver 
and other organs. Virulence factors for this microorganism have not been
identified, to date. Given the peracute or acute nature of clostridial hepatitis 
in animals, treatment is rarely effective. However, INH and BH can be prevented, 
and should be controlled by vaccination and control of liver flukes. To date, no 
vaccine is available to prevent TD.

DOI: 10.1177/1040638719886567 
PMCID: PMC7081508 [Available on 2020-11-18]
PMID: 31735127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

