
1. Mol Cells. 2020 Mar 31;43(3):276-285. doi: 10.14348/molcells.2020.2309.

Gut Microbial Metabolites Induce Changes in Circadian Oscillation of Clock Gene
Expression in the Mouse Embryonic Fibroblasts.

Ku K(1), Park I(1), Kim D(1), Kim J(1), Jang S(1), Choi M(1), Choe HK(1), Kim
K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Daegu Gyeongbuk Institute of
Science and Technology (DGIST), Daegu 42988, Korea.

Circadian rhythm is an endogenous oscillation of about 24-h period in many
physiological processes and behaviors. This daily oscillation is maintained by
the molecular clock machinery with transcriptional-translational feedback loops
mediated by clock genes including Period2 (Per2) and Bmal1. Recently, it was
revealed that gut microbiome exerts a significant impact on the circadian
physiology and behavior of its host; however, the mechanism through which it
regulates the molecular clock has remained elusive. 3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)propionic 
acid (4-OH-PPA) and 3-phenylpropionic acid (PPA) are major metabolites
exclusively produced by Clostridium sporogenes and may function as unique
chemical messengers communicating with its host. In the present study, we
examined if two C. sporogenes-derived metabolites can modulate the oscillation of
mammalian molecular clock. Interestingly, 4-OH-PPA and PPA increased the
amplitude of both PER2 and Bmal1 oscillation in a dosedependent manner following 
their administration immediately after the nadir or the peak of their rhythm. The
phase of PER2 oscillation responded differently depending on the mode of
administration of the metabolites. In addition, using an organotypic slice
culture ex vivo, treatment with 4-OH-PPA increased the amplitude and lengthened
the period of PER2 oscillation in the suprachiasmatic nucleus and other tissues. 
In summary, two C. sporogenes-derived metabolites are involved in the regulation 
of circadian oscillation of Per2 and Bmal1 clock genes in the host's peripheral
and central clock machineries.

DOI: 10.14348/molcells.2020.2309 
PMCID: PMC7103884
PMID: 32155689 

