
1. World J Gastroenterol. 2020 Jun 7;26(21):2758-2767. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v26.i21.2758.

Vaccine therapy for dysbiosis-related diseases.

Fujimoto K(1), Uematsu S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology and Genomics, Osaka City University Graduate School
of Medicine, Osaka 545-8585, Japan.

Progress in genomic analysis has resulted in the proposal that the intestinal
microbiota is a crucial environmental factor in the development of multifactorial
diseases, such as obesity, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and inflammatory bowel
diseases represented by Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Dysregulated gut 
microbiome contributes to the pathogenesis of such disorders; however, there are 
few effective treatments for controlling only disease-mediating bacteria. Here,
we review current knowledge about the intestinal microbiome in health and
disease, and discuss a regulatory strategy using a parenteral vaccine with
emulsified curdlan and CpG oligodeoxynucleotides, which we have recently
developed. Unlike other conventional injectable immunizations, our vaccine
contributes to the induction of antigen-specific systemic and mucosal immunity.
This vaccine strategy can prevent infectious diseases such as Streptococcus
pneumoniae infection, and control metabolic symptoms mediated by intestinal
bacteria (e.g. Clostridium ramosum) by induction of high titers of
antigen-specific IgA at target mucosal sites. In the future, our vaccination
approach could be an effective therapy for common infectious diseases and
dysbiosis-related disorders that have been difficult to control so far.

Â©The Author(s) 2020. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v26.i21.2758 
PMCID: PMC7284185
PMID: 32550752 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors
declare no conflicts of interest.

