
1. J Am Chem Soc. 2020 Jul 15;142(28):12409-12419. doi: 10.1021/jacs.0c04964. Epub
2020 Jul 6.

Investigation of the Unusual Ability of the [FeFe] Hydrogenase from Clostridium
beijerinckii to Access an O2-Protected State.

Corrigan PS(1), Tirsch JL(1), Silakov A(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Pennsylvania State University, 104 Chemistry Building, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, United States.

[FeFe] hydrogenases are enzymes capable of producing and oxidizing H2 at
staggering submillisecond time scales. A major limitation in applying these
enzymes for industrial hydrogen production is their irreversible inactivation by 
oxygen. Recently, an [FeFe] hydrogenase from Clostridium beijerinckii (CbHydA1)
was reported to regain its catalytic activity after exposure to oxygen. In this
report, we have determined that artificially matured CbHydA1 is indeed oxygen
tolerant in the absence of reducing agents and sulfides by means of reaching an
O2-protected state (Hinact). We were also able to generate the Hinact state
anaerobically via both chemical and electrochemical oxidation. We use a
combination of spectroscopy, electrochemistry, and density functional theory
(DFT) to uncover intrinsic properties of the active center of CbHydA1, leading to
its unprecedented oxygen tolerance. We have observed that reversible,
low-potential oxidation of the active center leads to the protection against
O2-induced degradation. The transition between the active oxidized state (Hox)
and the Hinact state appears to proceed without any detectable intermediates. We 
found that the Hinact state is stable for more than 40 h in air, highlighting the
remarkable resilience of CbHydA1 to oxygen. Using a combination of DFT and FTIR, 
we also provide a hypothesis for the chemical identity of the Hinact state. These
results demonstrate that CbHydA1 has remarkable stability in the presence of
oxygen, which will drive future efforts to engineer more robust catalysts for
biofuel production.

DOI: 10.1021/jacs.0c04964 
PMID: 32580545 

