
1. Metab Eng Commun. 2020 Jun 11;11:e00137. doi: 10.1016/j.mec.2020.e00137.
eCollection 2020 Dec.

Aerobic acetone-butanol-isopropanol (ABI) fermentation through a co-culture of
Clostridium beijerinckii G117 and recombinant Bacillus subtilis 1A1.

Cui Y(1), He J(2), Yang KL(1), Zhou K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of
Singapore, 4 Engineering Drive 4, Singapore, 117585, Singapore.
(2)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, National University of
Singapore, 1 Engineering Drive 2, Singapore, 117576, Singapore.

An engineered B. subtilis 1A1 strain (BsADH2) expressing a secondary alcohol
dehydrogenase (CpSADH) was co-cultured with C. beijerinckii G117 under an aerobic
condition. During the fermentation on glucose, B. subtilis BsADH2 depleted oxygen
in culture media completely and created an anaerobic environment for
C. beijerinckii G117, an obligate anaerobe, to grow. Meanwhile, lactate produced 
by B. subtilis BsADH2 was re-assimilated by C. beijerinckii G117. In return,
acetone produced by C. beijerinckii G117 was reduced into isopropanol by
B. subtilis BsADH2 via expressing the CpSADH, which helped maintain the redox
balance of the engineered B. subtilis. In the symbiotic system consisting of two 
strains, 1.7 ​g/L of acetone, 4.8 ​g/L of butanol, and 0.9 ​g/L of isopropanol
(with an isopropanol/acetone ratio of 0.53) was produced from 60 ​g/L of glucose.
This symbiotic system also worked when oxygen was supplied to the culture,
although less isopropanol was produced (0.9 ​g/L of acetone, 4.9 ​g/L of butanol,
and 0.2 ​g/L of isopropanol). The isopropanol titer was increased substantially
to 2.5 ​g/L when we increased the inoculum size of B. subtilis BsADH2 and
optimized other process parameters. With the Bacillus-Clostridium co-culture,
switching from the original acetone-butanol (AB) fermentation to an aerobic
acetone-butanol-isopropanol (ABI) fermentation can be easily achieved without
genetic engineering of Clostridium. This strategy of employing a recombinant
Bacillus to co-culture with Clostridium should be potentially useful to modify
traditional acetone-butanol-ethanol fermentation for the production of other
value-added chemicals.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mec.2020.e00137 
PMCID: PMC7322341
PMID: 32612931 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.

