
1. Exp Ther Med. 2020 Nov;20(5):10. doi: 10.3892/etm.2020.9138. Epub 2020 Aug 25.

Clostridium butyricum protects intestinal barrier function via upregulation of
tight junction proteins and activation of the Akt/mTOR signaling pathway in a
mouse model of dextran sodium sulfate-induced colitis.

Liu M(1)(2)(3), Xie W(3)(4), Wan X(1)(2)(3), Deng T(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan,
Hubei 430060, P.R. China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Hubei Province for Digestive System Disease, Wuhan, Hubei
430060, P.R. China.
(3)Central Laboratory of Renmin Hospital, Wuhan, Hubei 430060, P.R. China.
(4)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University,
Wuhan, Hubei 430060, P.R. China.

Clostridium butyricum (CB), a probiotic, is a gram-positive obligate anaerobic
bacillus with acid and heat resistant properties. Previous studies have reported 
that CB has beneficial effects in intestinal diseases and regulates intestinal
function. The aim of the present study was to investigate the protective effects 
and mechanisms of CB on the intestinal barrier function. Mice were randomly
divided into three experimental groups (n=15 mice/group), including control,
dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) and DSS + CB. In the DSS and DSS + CB groups colitis
was induced with 3% DSS dissolved in drinking water for 7 days. DSS + CB group
mice were co-treated daily with 200 µl (2x108 CFU) CB solution via gavage. The
intestinal mucosal barrier function in mice was assessed by measuring
FITC-labeled 4-kDa dextran (molecular weight, 4,000 Da) flux and by analyzing the
expression of tight junction (TJ)-related proteins using western blot analysis.
In addition, the secretion levels of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin
(IL)-1β, IL-6, IL-10 and IL-13, and the concentration of malondialdehyde,
glutathione and superoxide dismutase were detected using ELISAs to determine
inflammation and oxidative stress, respectively. The activation status of the
Akt/mTOR signaling pathway was also investigated using western blot analysis. The
results demonstrated that, in mice with DSS-induced colitis treatment,
co-treatment with CB attenuated colitis symptoms and intestinal permeability,
increased the expression levels of TJ-related proteins, decreased TNF-α, IL-1β
and IL-13 secretion levels but increased those of IL-10, and reduced oxidative
stress. Additionally, CB elevated the phosphorylation of Akt, mTOR and p70
ribosomal protein S6 kinase. Collectively, the present results indicated that CB 
protected intestinal barrier function and decreased intestinal mucosal
permeability via upregulating the expression levels of TJ-related proteins in a
mouse model of DSS-induced colitis. Moreover, the results suggested that the
effects of CB could be mediated by the Akt/mTOR signaling pathway.

Copyright: © Liu et al.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2020.9138 
PMCID: PMC7471846
PMID: 32934675 

