
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 Jun 17;86(13). pii: e00665-20. doi:
10.1128/AEM.00665-20. Print 2020 Jun 17.

The Small RNA sr8384 Is a Crucial Regulator of Cell Growth in Solventogenic
Clostridia.

Yang Y(#)(1), Zhang H(#)(1)(2), Lang N(1)(2), Zhang L(1)(2), Chai C(1), He H(1), 
Jiang W(3), Gu Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Synthetic Biology, CAS Center for Excellence in Molecular
Plant Sciences, Shanghai Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Synthetic Biology, CAS Center for Excellence in Molecular
Plant Sciences, Shanghai Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China whjiang@sibs.ac.cn ygu02@sibs.ac.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Small RNAs (sRNAs) are crucial regulatory molecules in organisms and are
well-known not only for their roles in the control of diverse crucial biological 
processes but also for their value in regulation rewiring. However, to date, in
Gram-positive anaerobic solventogenic clostridia (a group of important industrial
bacteria with exceptional substrate and product diversity), sRNAs remain
minimally explored, and thus there is a lack of detailed understanding regarding 
these important molecules and their use as targets for genetic improvement. Here,
we performed large-scale phenotypic screens of a transposon-mediated mutant
library of Clostridium acetobutylicum, a typical solventogenic clostridial
species, and discovered a novel sRNA (sr8384) that functions as a crucial
regulator of cell growth. Comparative transcriptomic data combined with genetic
and biochemical analyses revealed that sr8384 acts as a pleiotropic regulator and
controls multiple targets that are associated with crucial biological processes
through direct or indirect interactions. Notably, the in vivo expression level of
sr8384 determined the cell growth rate, thereby affecting the solvent titer and
productivity. These findings indicate the importance of the sr8384-mediated
regulatory network in C. acetobutylicum Furthermore, a homolog of sr8384 was
discovered and proven to be functional in another important Clostridium species, 
C. beijerinckii, suggesting the potential broad role of this sRNA in clostridia. 
Our work showcases a previously unknown potent and complex role of sRNAs in
clostridia, providing new opportunities for understanding and engineering these
anaerobes.IMPORTANCE The uses of sRNAs as new resources for functional studies
and strain modifications are promising strategies in microorganisms. However,
these crucial regulatory molecules have hardly been explored in industrially
important solventogenic clostridia. Here, we identified sr8384 as a novel
determinant sRNA controlling the cell growth of solventogenic Clostridium
acetobutylicum Based on a detailed functional analysis, we further reveal the
pleiotropic function of sr8384 and its multiple direct and indirect crucial
targets, which represents a valuable source for understanding and optimizing this
anaerobe. Of note, manipulation of this sRNA achieves improved cell growth and
solvent synthesis. Our findings provide a new perspective for future studies on
regulatory sRNAs in clostridia.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00665-20 
PMCID: PMC7301862 [Available on 2020-12-17]
PMID: 32358006 

