
1. Biomacromolecules. 2020 Oct 1. doi: 10.1021/acs.biomac.0c01162. [Epub ahead of
print]

In Vitro Synthesis and Self-Assembly of Cellulose II Nanofibrils Catalyzed by the
Reverse Reaction of Clostridium thermocellum Cellodextrin Phosphorylase.

Pylkkänen R(1)(2), Mohammadi P(2), Arola S(2), de Ruijter JC(2), Sunagawa N(3),
Igarashi K(2)(3), Penttilä M(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioproducts and Biosystems, School of Chemical Engineering,
Aalto University, P.O. Box 16300, FI-00076 Espoo, Finland.
(2)VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland Ltd., P.O. Box 1000, FI-02044 VTT,
Finland.
(3)Department of Biomaterial Sciences, Graduate School of Agriculture and Life
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, 113-8657 Tokyo, Japan.

In nature, various organisms produce cellulose as microfibrils, which are
processed into their nano- and microfibrillar and/or crystalline components by
humans in order to obtain desired material properties. Interestingly, the natural
synthesis machinery can be circumvented by enzymatically synthesizing cellulose
from precursor molecules in vitro. This approach is appealing for producing
tailor-made cellulosic particles and materials because it enables optimization of
the reaction conditions for cellulose synthesis in order to generate particles
with a desired morphology in their pure form. Here, we present enzymatic
cellulose synthesis catalyzed by the reverse reaction of Clostridium thermocellum
cellodextrin phosphorylase in vitro. We were able to produce cellulose II
nanofibril networks in all conditions tested, using varying concentrations of the
glycosyl acceptors d-glucose or d-cellobiose (0.5, 5, and 50 mM). We show that
shorter cellulose chains assemble into flat ribbon-like fibrils with greater
diameter, while longer chains assemble into cylindrical fibrils with smaller
diameter.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.biomac.0c01162 
PMID: 32960595 

