
1. PLoS One. 2020 Jan 24;15(1):e0228338. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0228338.
eCollection 2020.

Effect of Lactobacillus acidophilus D2/CSL (CECT 4529) supplementation in
drinking water on chicken crop and caeca microbiome.

De Cesare A(1), Sala C(2), Castellani G(2), Astolfi A(3), Indio V(3), Giardini
A(4), Manfreda G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural and Food Sciences, Alma Mater Studiorum -
University of Bologna, Ozzano dell'Emilia, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(3)Centro Interdipartimentale di Ricerche sul Cancro "Giorgio Prodi" (CIRC),
Bologna, Italy.
(4)Centro Sperimentale del Latte, Zelo Buon Persico, Lodi, Italy.

In this study we gained insights into the effects of the supplementation with
Lactobacillus acidophilus D2/CSL (CECT 4529) in the chicken drinking water on
crop and caeca microbiomes. The probiotic was supplemented at the concentrations 
of 0.2 g Lactobacillus acidophilus/day/bird and 0.02 g Lactobacillus
acidophilus/day/bird and its effect on the crop and caeca microbiomes was
assessed at 14 and 35 days of rearing. The results showed that mean relative
abundance of Lactobacillus acidophilus in the caeca did not show significative
differences in the treated and control birds, although Lactobacillus acidophilus 
as well as Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Lactobacillus crispatus and
Lactobacillus reuteri significantly increased over time. Moreover, the treatment 
with the high dose of probiotic significantly increased the abundance of
Clostridium asparagiforme, Clostridium hathewayi and Clostridium saccharolyticum 
producing butyrate and other organic acids supporting the chicken health.
Finally, at 35 days, the Cell division protein FtsH (EC 3.4.24.-) and the
Site-specific recombinase genes were significantly increased in the caeca of
birds treated with the high dose of probiotic in comparison to the control group.
The results of this study showed that Lactobacillus acidophilus D2/CSL (CECT
4529) supplementation in the drinking water at the concentrations of 0.2 and 0.02
g Lactobacillus acidophilus/day/bird improved beneficial microbes and functional 
genes in broiler crops and caeca. Nevertheless, the main site of action of the
probiotic is the crop, at least in the early stage of the chicken life. Indeed,
at 14 days Lactobacillus acidophilus was significantly higher in the crops of
chickens treated with the high dose of LA in comparison to the control (14.094 vs
1.741%, p = 0.036).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0228338 
PMCID: PMC6980619
PMID: 31978143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The Centro Sperimentale del Latte does not alter 
our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.

