
1. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Jul;47(6-7):543-550. doi:
10.1007/s10295-020-02279-3. Epub 2020 May 16.

Production of isopropyl and butyl esters by Clostridium mono-culture and
co-culture.

Cui Y(1), He J(2), Yang KL(3), Zhou K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of
Singapore, 4 Engineering Drive 4, Block E5-02-09, Singapore, 117585, Singapore.
(2)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, National University of
Singapore, 1 Engineering Drive 2, Singapore, 117576, Singapore.
(3)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of
Singapore, 4 Engineering Drive 4, Block E5-02-09, Singapore, 117585, Singapore.
cheyk@nus.edu.sg.
(4)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of
Singapore, 4 Engineering Drive 4, Block E5-02-09, Singapore, 117585, Singapore.
kang.zhou@nus.edu.sg.

Production of esters from the acetone-butanol-ethanol (ABE) fermentation by
Clostridium often focuses on butyl butyrate, leaving acetone as an undesired
product. Addition of butyrate is also often needed because ABE fermentation does 
not produce enough butyrate. Here we addressed the problems using Clostridium
beijerinckii BGS1 that preferred to produce isopropanol instead of acetone, and
co-culturing it with Clostridium tyrobutyricum ATCC 25,755 that produced
butyrate. Unlike acetone, isopropanol could be converted into ester using lipase 
and acids. C. tyrobutyricum ATCC 25,755 produced acids at pH 6, while C.
beijerinckii BGS1 produced mainly solvents at the same pH. When the two strains
were co-cultured, more butyrate was produced, leading to a higher titer of esters
than the mono-culture of C. beijerinckii BGS1. As the first study reporting the
production of isopropyl butyrate from the Clostridium fermentation, this study
highlighted the potential use of lipase and co-culture strategy in ester
production.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-020-02279-3 
PMID: 32418085 

