
1. Foods. 2020 Feb 17;9(2). pii: E206. doi: 10.3390/foods9020206.

Red Wine and Garlic as a Possible Alternative to Minimize the Use of Nitrite for 
Controlling Clostridium Sporogenes and Salmonella in a Cured Sausage: Safety and 
Sensory Implications.

Patarata L(1), Martins S(1), Silva JA(1), Fraqueza MJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)CECAV, Animal and Veterinary Research Center , University of Trás-os-Montes e 
Alto Douro, 5001-801 Vila Real, Portugal.
(2)CIISA, Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Animal Health, Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine, University of Lisbon, Avenida da Universidade Técnica, Pólo 
Universitário do Alto da Ajuda, 1300-477 Lisbon, Portugal.

The use of nitrite in meat products has been questioned due to its potential
association with colon cancer. This work aimed to evaluate the behavior of
Clostridium sporogenes (used as a surrogate for Cl. botulinum) and Salmonella in 
a dry-cured sausage, chouriço, made with and without nitrite and nitrate or with 
red wine and garlic, and to study the sensory implications through a consumer
test. The survival of Cl. sporogenes and Salmonella was determined mainly by the 
reduction in water activity (aw), but the use of wine or wine and garlic
contributed to the control of Salmonella during processing. The challenge test
with Cl. sporogenes revealed no effect of the curing salts, wine, or garlic on
the population of this microorganism. The use of curing salts resulted in a more 
reddish color that was recognized by the consumer as over-cured and artificial
when compared with chouriço made with wine or wine and garlic, which were better 
rated in the hedonic test. In cured sausages of small caliber, the use of nitrite
might be reconsidered, as the values of aw necessary to inhibit Clostridium
toxinogenesis and growth are achieved rapidly.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9020206 
PMCID: PMC7073624
PMID: 32079181 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

