
1. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2020 May 15;8:449. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00449.
eCollection 2020.

Fe3O4@chitosan Microspheres Coating as Cytoprotective Exoskeletons for the
Enhanced Production of Butyric Acid With Clostridium tyrobutyricum Under Acid
Stress.

Liu T(1)(2), Jiang C(2), Zhu L(3), Jiang L(2), Huang H(4).

Author information: 
(1)College of Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech
University, Nanjing, China.
(2)College of Food Science and Light Industry, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing, 
China.
(3)College of Chemical and Molecular Engineering, Nanjing Tech University,
Nanjing, China.
(4)College of Pharmaceutical Science, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing, China.

The introduction of inorganic nano-materials may endow microbial cells with
unique new features, including greater resistance to adverse abiotic stress. The 
aim of this work was to enhance the acid tolerance of Clostridium tyrobutyricum
ATCC 25755 by coating cells with self-assembled Fe3O4@chitosan (Fe3O4@CS)
microspheres, and thereby increase the production of butyric acid. The optimal
coating efficiency of 81.19% was obtained by systematically optimizing the three 
operational parameters temperature, rpm and mass ratio, which were determined to 
be 37°C, 80 rpm and 1:2, respectively. Physicochemical characterization was used 
to assess the superparamagnetism, thermostability and subsize of Fe3O4@CS
attached to the cells. Compared to free cells, C. tyrobutyricum coated with
Fe3O4@CS (CtFC) exhibited stronger acid tolerance at low pH. At a pH of 4 or 5,
the levels of ROS, MDA, LDH, and SOD caused by the acid environment in free cells
were significant higher than in CtFC. Moreover, without adding NaOH, CtFC
fermentation showed a higher butyric acid titer (37.60 vs. 31.56 g/L) compared to
free-cell fermentation. At the same time, an average butyric acid yield of 0.46
g/g in each repeated-batch fermentation was also obtained by taking advantage of 
the biocatalyst's reusability and convenient separation from the fermentation
broth via an external magnetic force. Overall, the developed CtFC illustrates a
new paradigm for developing an economical and reusable biocatalyst for industrial
application in butyric acid production.

Copyright © 2020 Liu, Jiang, Zhu, Jiang and Huang.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00449 
PMCID: PMC7243709
PMID: 32500066 

