
1. J Stomatol Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2020 May 13. pii: S2468-7855(20)30098-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jormas.2020.05.004. [Epub ahead of print]

Tetanus of suspected dental causality.

Baviskar PS(1), Ahuja SA(2), Natarajan S(3), Bagchi PR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of oral and maxillofacial surgery, MGM dental college and hospital,
Navi Mumbai 410209 Maharashtra, India. Electronic address:
drpadmakar22@gmail.com.
(2)Department of oral and maxillofacial surgery, MGM dental college and hospital,
Navi Mumbai, 410209, Maharashtra, India.
(3)Department, Department of oral and maxillofacial surgery, MGM dental college
and hospital, Navi Mumbai, 410209 Maharashtra, India.

Tetanus infection by Clostridium tetani is a major health problem in many
developing countries, including India. Significant morbidity and mortality is
attributed to lack of awareness, hygiene and incomplete vaccination. The most
common cause of tetanus infection follows cutaneous injury or infection. However,
a localized point of entry cannot always be determined. Tetanus has been
associated with tooth extraction, root canal therapy, gross caries, periodontal
abscess and intraoral soft tissue trauma. The classic symptoms of trismus and
risus sardonicus may result in an initial presentation to an oral and
maxillofacial surgeon. Due to the rarity of this infection, the dentist or the
health care provider may fail to corroborate the findings and be unsuspecting of 
the diagnosis. Prompt recognition is the key in such a scenario due to the
inherent risk of rapid progress of symptoms, progressive deterioration of the
health condition and catastrophic complications. A sound knowledge of the effects
of tetanospasmin, the disease process, prevention and vaccination against tetanus
with its management is essential for health care workers. The authors hereby
present a case of tetanus with a suspected dental etiology to make the dental
fraternity aware of this lurking malady.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jormas.2020.05.004 
PMID: 32416284 

