
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Jul;70(7):4269-4279. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004283.

Caproicibacter fermentans gen. nov., sp. nov., a new caproate-producing bacterium
and emended description of the genus Caproiciproducens.

Flaiz M(1), Baur T(1), Brahner S(1), Poehlein A(2), Daniel R(2), Bengelsdorf
FR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Mikrobiologie und Biotechnologie, Universität Ulm,
Albert-Einstein-Allee 11, 89081 Ulm, Germany.
(2)Genomic and Applied Microbiology & Göttingen Genomics Laboratory, Georg-August
University Göttingen, Grisebachstr. 8, D-37077 Göttingen, Germany.

A strictly anaerobic bacterial strain designated EA1T was isolated from an
enrichment culture inoculated with biogas reactor content. Cells of strain EA1T
are spore-forming rods (1-3×0.4-0.8 µm) and stain Gram-negative, albeit they
possess a Gram-positive type of cell-wall ultrastructure. Growth of strain EA1T
was observed at 30 and 37 °C and within a pH range of pH 5-9. The major
components recovered in the fatty acid fraction were C14:0, C16:0, C16:0 DMA
(dimethyl acetal) and C16:1 ω7c. Strain EA1T fermented several mono- and
disaccharides. Metabolic end products from fructose were acetate, butyrate,
caproate and lactate. Furthermore, ethanol, CO2 and H2 were identified as
products. The genome consists of a chromosome (3.9 Mbp) with 3797 predicted
protein-encoding genes and a G+C content of 51.25 mol%. Phylogenetic analysis
based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that strain EA1T represents a novel
taxon within the family Oscillospiraceae. The most closely related type strains
of EA1T, based on 16S rRNA gene sequence identity, are Caproiciproducens
galactitolivorans BS-1T (94.9 %), [Clostridium] leptum DSM 753T (93.8 %),
[Clostridium] sporosphaeroides DSM 1294T (91.7 %) and Ruminococcus bromii ATCC
27255T (91.0 %). Further phenotypic characteristics of strain EA1T differentiate 
it from related, validly described bacterial species. Strain EA1T represents a
novel genus and novel species within the family Oscillospiraceae. The proposed
name is Caproicibacter fermentans gen. nov., sp. nov. The type strain is EA1T
(DSM 107079T=JCM 33110T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004283 
PMID: 32584751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

