
1. Gut Microbes. 2020 Jul 3;11(4):979-996. doi: 10.1080/19490976.2020.1732268. Epub 
2020 Mar 5.

The microbiome modulating activity of bile acids.

Tian Y(1)(2), Gui W(1), Koo I(1), Smith PB(3), Allman EL(1), Nichols RG(1), Rimal
B(1), Cai J(1), Liu Q(1), Patterson AD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, The Pennsylvania State
University , University Park, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory of Magnetic Resonance in Biological Systems, State Key
Laboratory of Magnetic Resonance and Atomic and Molecular Physics, National
Centre for Magnetic Resonance in Wuhan, Wuhan Institute of Physics and
Mathematics, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences , Wuhan, P. R. China.
(3)Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University ,
University Park, Pennsylvania, USA.

Bile acids are potent antibacterial compounds and play an important role in
shaping the microbial ecology of the gut. Here, we combined flow cytometry,
growth rate measurements (OD600), and NMR- and mass spectrometry-based
metabolomics to systematically profile the impact of bile acids on the microbiome
using in vitro and in vivo models. This study confirmed that (1) unconjugated
bile acids possess more potent antibacterial activity than conjugated bile acids;
(2) Gram-positive bacteria are more sensitive to bile acids than Gram-negative
bacteria; (3) some probiotic bacteria such as Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium
and 7Î±-dehydroxylating bacteria such as Clostridium scindens show bile acid
resistance that is associated with activation of glycolysis. Moreover, we
demonstrated that (4) as one of most hydrophobic bile acids, lithocholic acid
(LCA) shows reduced toxicity to bacteria in the cecal microbiome in both in vivo 
and in vitro models; (5) bile acids directly and rapidly affect bacterial global 
metabolism including membrane damage, disrupted amino acid, nucleotide, and
carbohydrate metabolism; and (6) in vivo, short-term exposure to bile acids
significantly affected host metabolism via alterations of the bacterial community
structure. This study systematically profiled interactions between bile acids and
gut bacteria providing validation of previous observation and new insights into
the interaction of bile acids with the microbiome and mechanisms related to bile 
acid tolerance.

DOI: 10.1080/19490976.2020.1732268 
PMID: 32138583 

