
1. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2020 Mar 20;8:214. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00214.
eCollection 2020.

Metabolic Engineering of Histidine Kinases in Clostridium beijerinckii for
Enhanced Butanol Production.

Xin X(1), Cheng C(1), Du G(1), Chen L(1), Xue C(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Bioengineering, Dalian University of Technology, Dalian, China.

Clostridium beijerinckii, a promising industrial microorganism for butanol
production, suffers from low butanol titer and lack of high-efficiency genetical 
engineering toolkit. A few histidine kinases (HKs) responsible for Spo0A
phosphorylation have been demonstrated as functionally important components in
regulating butanol biosynthesis in solventogenic clostridia such as C.
acetobutylicum, but no study about HKs has been conducted in C. beijerinckii. In 
this study, six annotated but uncharacterized candidate HK genes sharing partial 
homologies (no less than 30%) with those in C. acetobutylicum were selected based
on sequence alignment. The encoding region of these HK genes were deleted with
CRISPR-Cas9n-based genome editing technology. The deletion of cbei2073 and
cbei4484 resulted in significant change in butanol biosynthesis, with butanol
production increased by 40.8 and 17.3% (13.8 g/L and 11.5 g/L vs. 9.8 g/L),
respectively, compared to the wild-type. Faster butanol production rates were
observed, with butanol productivity greatly increased by 40.0 and 20.0%,
respectively, indicating these two HKs are important in regulating cellular
metabolism in C. beijerinckii. In addition, the sporulation frequencies of two
HKs inactivated strains decreased by 96.9 and 77.4%, respectively. The other four
HK-deletion (including cbei2087, cbei2435, cbei4925, and cbei1553) mutant strains
showed few phenotypic changes compared with the wild-type. This study
demonstrated the role of HKs on sporulation and solventogenesis in C.
beijerinckii, and provided a novel engineering strategy of HKs for improving
metabolite production. The hyper-butanol-producing strains generated in this
study have great potentials in industrial biobutanol production.

Copyright Â© 2020 Xin, Cheng, Du, Chen and Xue.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00214 
PMCID: PMC7098912
PMID: 32266241 

