
1. Toxins (Basel). 2020 Jan 10;12(1). pii: E42. doi: 10.3390/toxins12010042.

Development of An Innovative and Quick Method for the Isolation of Clostridium
botulinum Strains Involved in Avian Botulism Outbreaks.

Le Gratiet T(1)(2), Poezevara T(1), Rouxel S(1), Houard E(1), Mazuet C(3),
Chemaly M(1), Mar√©chal CL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Hygiene and Quality of Poultry and Pork Products, French Agency for
Food, Environmental and Occupational Health & Safety (ANSES), BP 53, 22440
Ploufragan, France.
(2)UFR of Life Sciences and Environment, University of Rennes 1, 35 000 Rennes,
France.
(3)National Reference Center for Anaerobic Bacteria and Botulism, Institut
Pasteur, 25-28 Rue du Docteur Roux, 75724 Paris, France.

Avian botulism is a serious neuroparalytic disease mainly caused by a type C/D
botulinum neurotoxin produced by Clostridium botulinum group III, one of the
entwined bacterial species from the Clostridium novyi sensu lato genospecies. Its
isolation is very challenging due to the absence of selective media and the
instability of the phage carrying the gene encoding for the neurotoxin. The
present study describes the development of an original method for isolating C.
botulinum group III strains. Briefly, this method consists of streaking the
InstaGene matrix extraction pellet on Egg Yolk Agar plates and then collecting
the colonies with lipase and lecithinase activities. Using this approach, it was 
possible to isolate 21 C. novyi sensu lato strains from 22 enrichment broths of
avian livers, including 14 toxic strains. This method was successfully used to
re-isolate type C, D, C/D, and D/C strains from liver samples spiked with five
spores per gram. This method is cheap, user-friendly, and reliable. It can be
used to quickly isolate toxic strains involved in avian botulism with a 64%
success rate and C. novyi sensu lato with a 95% rate. This opens up new
perspectives for C. botulinum genomic research, which will shed light on the
epidemiology of avian botulism.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins12010042 
PMCID: PMC7020472
PMID: 31936866 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. The
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to
publish the results.

