
1. Surg Case Rep. 2020 Jan 16;6(1):23. doi: 10.1186/s40792-020-0770-y.

Clostridium septicum-infected Stanford type A acute aortic dissection: a case
report.

Akita K(1), Takami Y(2), Matsuhashi K(2), Sakurai Y(2), Amano K(2), Ishikawa
H(2), Eda T(2), Takagi Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Fujita Health University School of
Medicine, 1-98 Dengakugakubo Kutsukake-cho, Toyoake, 470-1192, Japan.
k-akita@fujita-hu.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Fujita Health University School of
Medicine, 1-98 Dengakugakubo Kutsukake-cho, Toyoake, 470-1192, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Thoracic aortitis caused by Clostridium septicum is a rare infection 
with a strong association with malignancy and high mortality rate when left
untreated. We report a case of surgical treatment for Stanford type A acute
aortic dissection in a patient with C. septicum sepsis and thoracic aortitis.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 63-year-old hypertensive man with rheumatoid arthritis
presented with general malaise and diagnosed with C. septicum-infected aortitis
with sepsis. On the 5th day of hospitalization, Stanford type A acute aortic
dissection developed with severe aortic regurgitation. The patient underwent
emergent surgical treatment successfully with excision of the infected ascending 
aorta and aortic root followed by replacement using a composite graft, followed
by diagnosis of sigmoid colon cancer 7 months after aortic surgery. He was
scheduled to undergo elective colon surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: C. septicum aortitis can progress quickly, causing aneurysm or
dissection. Therefore, in a patient with C. septicum aortitis, prompt surgical in
situ graft replacement should be performed to debride the infected vascular
lesions. Further investigations for gastrointestinal and hematological
malignancies as a source of C. septicum should be also conducted.

DOI: 10.1186/s40792-020-0770-y 
PMCID: PMC6965561
PMID: 31950362 

