
1. J Vet Diagn Invest. 2020 Mar;32(2):246-251. doi: 10.1177/1040638719877844. Epub
2019 Oct 4.

Clostridium sordellii-associated gas gangrene in 8 horses, 1998-2019.

Sacco SC(1)(2)(3)(4), Ortega J(1)(2)(3)(4), Navarro MA(1)(2)(3)(4), Fresneda
KC(1)(2)(3)(4), Anderson M(1)(2)(3)(4), Woods LW(1)(2)(3)(4), Moore
J(1)(2)(3)(4), Uzal FA(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Sciences Institute of Litoral and Morphological Sciences
Department, Veterinary Sciences School, National University of Litoral, Santa Fe,
Argentina (Sacco).
(2)Pathology and Animal Health Department, Veterinary Faculty, CEU-Cardenal
Herrera University, CEU Universities, Moncada, Valencia, Spain (Ortega).
(3)California Animal Health and Food Safety Laboratory, Davis, CA (Anderson,
Woods).
(4)San Bernardino (Navarro, Fresneda, Moore, Uzal) branches, School of Veterinary
Medicine, University of California, Davis, CA.

Gas gangrene occurs in several animal species and is caused by one or more
clostridial species. In horses, the disease is most often caused by Clostridium
perfringens type A. Although Clostridium sordellii has been associated with gas
gangrene in ruminants and humans, cases of the disease associated with this
microorganism have not been described in horses, to our knowledge. We report
herein 8 cases of gas gangrene caused by C. sordellii in horses. These cases were
characterized by myonecrosis and cellulitis, associated with systemic changes
suggestive of toxic shock. The diagnosis was confirmed by gross and microscopic
changes combined with anaerobic culture, fluorescent antibody test,
immunohistochemistry, and/or PCR. The predisposing factor in these cases was an
injection or a traumatic skin injury. C. sordellii should be considered as a
possible etiologic agent in cases of gas gangrene in horses.

DOI: 10.1177/1040638719877844 
PMCID: PMC7081493
PMID: 31585515  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

