
1. 3 Biotech. 2020 Jun;10(6):241. doi: 10.1007/s13205-020-02234-0. Epub 2020 May 9.

In vitro prebiotic potential, digestibility and biocompatibility properties of
laminari-oligosaccharides produced from curdlan by β-1,3-endoglucanase from
Clostridium thermocellum.

Kumar K(1), Rajulapati V(1), Goyal A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Carbohydrate Enzyme Biotechnology Laboratory, Department of Biosciences and
Bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, Guwahati, Assam 781039
India.

Curdlan or laminarin, a β-1,3-glucan was hydrolysed by β-1,3-endoglucanase
(CtLam81A) from Clostridium thermocellum to produce laminari-oligosaccharides.
TLC analysis of hydrolysed curdlan showed the presence of
laminari-oligosaccharides of the degree of polymerization, DP2-DP7. This mixture 
of laminari-oligosaccharides displayed prebiotic properties.
Laminari-oligosaccharides showed an increase in the growth of probiotic bacteria 
such as Lactobacillus plantarum DM5 and Lactobacillus acidophilus, while they did
not promote the growth of non-probiotic bacteria (Escherichia coli and
Enterobacter aerogenes). Laminari-oligosaccharides showed higher prebiotic
activity score of 0.92 ± 0.01 and 0.64 ± 0.08 for L. plantarum DM5 and L.
acidophilus NRRL B-4496, respectively, similar to those shown by inulin.
Laminari-oligosaccharides showed higher resistance or low digestibility against
α-amylase, artificial gastric juice and intestinal fluid than inulin indicating
their bioavailability to the probiotic bacteria present in the gastrointestinal
tract of human. The probiotic bacteria consumed laminaribiose and laminariotriose
more readily than higher laminari-oligosaccharides as carbon source for their
growth. The in vitro cytotoxicity assay of laminari-oligosaccharides (1 mg/ml) on
human embryonic kidney (HEK 293) cells showed that the cell viability was not
affected even after 72 h indicating their biocompatible nature. All the results
amply indicated that laminari-oligosaccharides can serve as potential prebiotic
additives for functional food products.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-020-02234-0 
PMCID: PMC7211229 [Available on 2021-06-01]
PMID: 32405445 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThere are no conflicts of
interest to declare.

