
1. mBio. 2020 Sep 15;11(5). pii: e02219-20. doi: 10.1128/mBio.02219-20.

Evidence That VirS Is a Receptor for the Signaling Peptide of the Clostridium
perfringens Agr-like Quorum Sensing System.

Li J(1), McClane BA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of Pittsburgh
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of Pittsburgh
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA bamcc@pitt.edu.

Since both the Agr (accessory gene regulator)-like quorum sensing (QS) system and
VirS/VirR (VirS/R) two-component regulatory system of Clostridium perfringens
positively regulate production of several toxins, including C. perfringens beta
toxin (CPB), it has been hypothesized the VirS membrane sensor protein is an
Agr-like QS signaling peptide (SP) receptor. To begin evaluating whether VirS is 
an SP receptor, this study sequenced the virS gene in C. perfringens strains
CN3685 and CN1795 because it was reported that agrB mutants of both strains
increase CPB production in response to the pentapeptide 5R, likely the natural
SP, but only the CN3685 agrB mutant responds to 8R, which is 5R plus a
3-amino-acid tail. This sequencing identified differences between the predicted
VirS extracellular loop 2 (ECL2) of CN3685 versus that of CN1795. To explore if
those ECL2 differences explain strain-related variations in SP sensitivity and
support VirS as an SP receptor, virS agrB double-null mutants of each strain were
complemented to swap which VirS protein they produce. CPB Western blotting showed
that this complementation changed the natural responsiveness of each strain to
8R. A pulldown experiment using biotin-5R demonstrated that VirS can bind SP. To 
further support VirS:SP binding and to identify a VirS binding site for SP, a
14-mer peptide corresponding to VirS ECL2 was synthesized. This ECL2 peptide
inhibited 5R signaling to agrB mutant and wild-type strains. This inhibition was 
specific, since a single N to D substitution in the ECL2 peptide abrogated these 
effects. Collectively, these results support VirS as an important SP receptor and
may assist development of therapeutics.IMPORTANCE C. perfringens beta toxin (CPB)
is essential for the virulence of type C strains, a common cause of fatal
necrotizing enteritis and enterotoxemia in humans and domestic animals.
Production of CPB, as well as several other C. perfringens toxins, is positively 
regulated by both the Agr-like QS system and the VirS/R two-component regulatory 
system. This study presents evidence that the VirS membrane sensor protein is a
receptor for the AgrD-derived SP and that the second extracellular loop of VirS
is important for SP binding. Understanding interactions between SP and VirS
improves knowledge of C. perfringens pathogenicity and may provide insights for
designing novel strategies to reduce C. perfringens toxin production during
infections.

Copyright Â© 2020 Li and McClane.

DOI: 10.1128/mBio.02219-20 
PMCID: PMC7492741
PMID: 32934089 

