
1. Bioresour Technol. 2020 Jul;308:123260. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123260. Epub
2020 Mar 27.

Sequential and consolidated bioprocessing of biogenic municipal solid waste: A
strategic pairing of thermophilic anaerobe and mesophilic microaerobe for ethanol
production.

Althuri A(1), Venkata Mohan S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Bioengineering and Environmental Sciences Lab, Energy and Environmental
Engineering, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Tarnaka, Hyderabad
500007, Telangana, India. Electronic address: avanthi34@gmail.com.
(2)Bioengineering and Environmental Sciences Lab, Energy and Environmental
Engineering, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Tarnaka, Hyderabad
500007, Telangana, India.

Feedstock availability and its pretreatment, high process economics and
insufficient ethanol (HEt) titres necessitated the bioprocesses that are
sustainable. The advanced consolidated bioprocessing (CBPSeq) strategy presently 
considered for improved HEt production involves, sequential coupling of CBP
thermophile, Clostridium thermocellum ATCC-27405 with mesophilic microaerobe,
Pichia stipitis NCIM-3498. Biogenic municipal solid waste (BMSW) pretreated with 
0.5% NaOH (CSPBMSW) served as the sole carbon source. CBPSeq (23.99 g/L) fared
better than CBP standalone (18.10 g/L) wherein 1.32-folds improvement in HEt
titre was recorded. Considering insufficient xylanase titre in cellulosome
complex of C. thermocellum, CBPSeq was performed employing exogenous xylanases
(CBPSeqE) to improve xylan digestibility and HEt yield. CBPSeqE-II biosystem at
pH 5 showed maximum HEt titre of 36.90 g/L which corresponds to yield of 0.26 g
HEt/ g CSPBMSW. This study substantiates efficacy of CBPSeqE-II biosystem in
sustainable bioethanol production from BMSW in a single reactor without laborious
steps.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123260 
PMID: 32251860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

