
1. Hum Pathol. 2020 Jul 15;104:9-17. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2020.07.013. [Epub ahead
of print]

Peyronie disease: a clinicopathologic study of 71 cases with emphasis on
histopathologic patterns and prevalent metaplastic ossification.

Hatfield BS(1), King CR(2), Udager AM(3), Williamson SR(4), Gandhi JS(5), Amin
MB(5), Spruill L(6), Lindsey KG(6), Pillappa R(2), Roseman JT 2nd(7), Mochel
MC(2), Smith SC(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, VCU School of Medicine, Richmond, VA, 23298, USA.
Electronic address: steven.c.smith@vcuhealth.org.
(2)Department of Pathology, VCU School of Medicine, Richmond, VA, 23298, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Michigan Medicine, Ann Arbor, MI, 48103, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine and Henry Ford Cancer
Institute, Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, MI, 48202, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine and Department of Urology,
University of Tennessee Health Sciences Center, Memphis, TN, 38103, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Medical University of South
Carolina, Charleston, SC, 29425, USA.
(7)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, VCU School of Medicine, Richmond, 
VA, 23298, USA.
(8)Department of Pathology, VCU School of Medicine, Richmond, VA, 23298, USA;
Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, VCU School of Medicine, Richmond, VA,
23298, USA.

Peyronie disease (PD) is a benign, superficial fibromatosis involving the fascial
structures of the penis, causing deformity, pain, and loss of function, for which
there are few contemporary studies of the histopathology. We performed a
multi-institutional review of 74 routine and consultation specimens submitted
with clinical concern for PD. Of these, three non-PD lesions were identified and 
excluded (a myointimoma, a mammary-type myofibroblastoma, and fibrocalcific
atherosclerosis). Of the 71 confirmed to be PD, the majority of patients were
white (83%), with a median age of 55 years (range: 26-88). The dorsal aspect of
the penis was the most common site involved (78%), followed by lateral (12%) and 
ventral (10%) aspects. The median degree of curvature was 70° (range: 20-360°).
On review, three overall histologic patterns characterized the lesions resected: 
dense fibrotic plaque (61%), dense fibrotic plaque with focal or patchy
metaplastic ossification (35%), and plaque composed predominantly of metaplastic 
ossification (4%). The fibrotic component was predominantly nodular (18%),
hyalinized/lamellar (46%), or mixed (32%), excepting two cases consisting
entirely of metaplastic bone. Chronic inflammation, when present, was most often 
focal and perivascular in distribution. In one case, an excision after
collagenase treatment showed myxoid change and increased stromal cellularity.
Overall, these findings define the range of PD histology, particularly
emphasizing that the calcification noted clinically nearly always represents bona
fide metaplastic ossification. Such context will be of value in evaluating
specimens prospectively, in light of changing practices and the use of new
technologies for treatment.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2020.07.013 
PMID: 32681945 

