
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Mar 31;11:480. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00480. eCollection
2020.

Molecular and Low-Resolution Structural Characterization of the Na+-Translocating
Glutaconyl-CoA Decarboxylase From Clostridium symbiosum.

Vitt S(1)(2), Prinz S(3), Hellwig N(4), Morgner N(4), Ermler U(1), Buckel W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Membrane Biology, Max Planck Institute of Biophysics, 
Frankfurt, Germany.
(2)Faculty of Biology, Philipps-Universität Marburg, Marburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Structural Biology, Max Planck Institute of Biophysics,
Frankfurt, Germany.
(4)Institute of Physical and Theoretical Chemistry, Goethe University Frankfurt, 
Frankfurt, Germany.

Some anaerobic bacteria use biotin-dependent Na+-translocating decarboxylases
(Bdc) of β-keto acids or their thioester analogs as key enzymes in their energy
metabolism. Glutaconyl-CoA decarboxylase (Gcd), a member of this protein family, 
drives the endergonic translocation of Na+ across the membrane with the exergonic
decarboxylation of glutaconyl-CoA (ΔG 0' ≈-30 kJ/mol) to crotonyl-CoA. Here, we
report on the molecular characterization of Gcd from Clostridium symbiosum based 
on native PAGE, size exclusion chromatography (SEC) and laser-induced liquid bead
ion desorption mass spectrometry (LILBID-MS). The obtained molecular mass of ca. 
400 kDa fits to the DNA sequence-derived mass of 379 kDa with a subunit
composition of 4 GcdA (65 kDa), 2 GcdB (35 kDa), GcdC1 (15 kDa), GcdC2 (14 kDa), 
and 2 GcdD (10 kDa). Low-resolution structural information was achieved from
preliminary electron microscopic (EM) measurements, which resulted in a 3D
reconstruction model based on negative-stained particles. The Gcd structure is
built up of a membrane-spanning base primarily composed of the GcdB dimer and a
solvent-exposed head with the GcdA tetramer as major component. Both globular
parts are bridged by a linker presumably built up of segments of GcdC1, GcdC2 and
the 2 GcdDs. The structure of the highly mobile Gcd complex represents a template
for the global architecture of the Bdc family.

Copyright © 2020 Vitt, Prinz, Hellwig, Morgner, Ermler and Buckel.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00480 
PMCID: PMC7145394
PMID: 32300335 

