
1. Int Immunopharmacol. 2020 Aug 6;88:106862. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2020.106862.
[Epub ahead of print]

Clostridium butyricum modulates gut microbiota and reduces colitis associated
colon cancer in mice.

Liu M(1), Xie W(2), Wan X(1), Deng T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan,
Hubei Province 430060, China; Key Laboratory of Hubei Province for Digestive
System Disease, Wuhan, Hubei Province 430060, China; Central Laboratory of Renmin
Hospital, Wuhan, Hubei Province 430060, China.
(2)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University,
Wuhan, Hubei 430060, China; Central Laboratory of Renmin Hospital, Wuhan, Hubei
Province 430060, China.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan,
Hubei Province 430060, China; Key Laboratory of Hubei Province for Digestive
System Disease, Wuhan, Hubei Province 430060, China; Central Laboratory of Renmin
Hospital, Wuhan, Hubei Province 430060, China. Electronic address:
dt641120@163.com.

We investigate the effects of Clostridium butyricum(CB) on gut microbiota and
colitis associated colon cancer(CAC) in mice.6-8 weeks old C57BL/6 mice were
randomly divided into control, azoxymethane (AOM) + dextran sodium sulphate (DSS)
and AOM + DSS + CB groups. Mice in the latter two groups received an
intraperitoneal injection of AOM (12.5 mg/kg), followed by three cycles of DSS
diluted in water (2.5% w/v). Mice in treatment group received CB (2 × 108 CFU in 
200 ul normal saline) by gavage administration three times one week. Microbiota
composition was assessed by 16S rRNA high-throughput sequencing. Colon samples
were collected to examine severity of colitis and tumorigenesis. Cytokines
including TNF-a, IL-6 and Cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) were detected by RT-qPCR.
Expression of Bcl-2, Bax and the state of components of NF-κB signaling pathway
were detected by western blot. The results revealed that CB regulated structure
of intestinal flora and changed the microbial composition; decreased Firmicutes/ 
Bacteroidetes ratio in phylum level and increased the relative abundance of
probiotics; decreased colitis, decreased incidence and size of colorectal
cancer(CRC) and increased apoptosis of tumor cells; decreased cytokines including
TNF-a and IL-6; decreased level of COX-2; decreased phosphorylation of NF-κB;
decreased level of Bcl-2 and increased expression of Bax. In conclusion, CB could
regulate structure and composition of gut microbiota and reduces colitis
associated colon cancer in mice, the mechanism may be inhibiting NF-κB pathway
and promoting apoptosis.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2020.106862 
PMID: 32771947 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

