
1. Physiol Rep. 2020 Sep;8(18):e14492. doi: 10.14814/phy2.14492.

Role of Claudins in Renal Branching Morphogenesis.

El Andalousi J(1), Khairallah H(2), Zhuang Y(2), Ryan AK(2)(3), Gupta IR(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of McGill University Health Centre, Montreal Children's
Hospital, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(2)Department of Human Genetics, McGill University, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Montreal Children's Hospital, McGill University,
Montréal, Québec, Canada.

Claudins are a family of tight junction proteins that are expressed during mouse 
kidney development. They regulate paracellular transport of solutes along the
nephron and contribute to the final composition of the urinary filtrate. To
understand their roles during development, we used a protein reagent, a truncated
version of the Clostridium perfringens enterotoxin (C-CPE), to specifically
remove a subset of claudin family members from mouse embryonic kidney explants at
embryonic day 12. We observed that treatment with C-CPE decreased the number and 
the complexity of ureteric bud tips that formed: there were more single and less 
bifid ureteric bud tips when compared to control-treated explants. In addition,
C-CPE-treated explants exhibited ureteric bud tips with larger lumens when
compared to control explants (p < .05). Immunofluorescent analysis revealed
decreased expression and localization of Claudin-3, -4, -6, and -8 to tight
junctions of ureteric bud tips following treatment with C-CPE. Interestingly,
Claudin-7 showed higher expression in the basolateral membrane of the ureteric
bud lineage and poor localization to the tight junctions of the ureteric bud
lineage both in controls and in C-CPE-treated explants. Taken together, it
appears that claudin proteins may play a role in ureteric bud branching
morphogenesis through changes in lumen formation that may affect the efficiency
by which ureteric buds emerge and branch.

© 2020 The Authors. Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on
behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.14814/phy2.14492 
PMCID: PMC7518295
PMID: 32975899 

