
1. ACS Omega. 2020 Jun 3;5(23):13729-13738. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.0c00896.
eCollection 2020 Jun 16.

Acacia Xylan as a Substitute for Commercially Available Xylan and Its Application
in the Production of Xylooligosaccharides.

Sharma K(1), Khaire KC(1), Thakur A(1), Moholkar VS(1), Goyal A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Carbohydrate Enzyme Biotechnology Laboratory, Center for Energy, Indian
Institute of Technology Guwahati, Guwahati 781039, Assam, India.

Over the past two decades, birchwood and beechwood xylans have been used as a
popular substrate for the characterization of xylanases. Recently, major
companies have discontinued their commercial production. Therefore, there is a
need to find an alternative to these substrates. Xylan extraction from Acacia
sawdust resulted in 23.5% (w/w) yield. The extracted xylan is composed of xylose 
and glucuronic acid residues in a molar ratio of 6:1 with a molecular mass of ∼70
kDa. The specific optical rotation analysis of extracted xylan displayed that it 
is composed of the d-form of xylose and glucuronic acid monomeric sugars. The
nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of extracted xylan revealed that the xylan
backbone is substituted with 4-O-methyl glucuronic acid at the O2 position.
Fourier transform infrared analysis confirmed the absence of lignin contamination
in the extracted xylan. Xylanase from Clostridium thermocellum displayed the
enzyme activity of 1761 U/mg against extracted xylan, and the corresponding
activity against beechwood xylan was 1556 U/mg, which confirmed that the
extracted xylan could be used as an alternative substrate for the
characterization of xylanases.

Copyright © 2020 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.0c00896 
PMCID: PMC7301597
PMID: 32566838 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interest.

