
1. BMJ Case Rep. 2020 May 20;13(5). pii: e233778. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2019-233778.

Fatal Clostridium septicum febrile neutropenia during adjuvant chemotherapy for
early breast cancer.

Moreira-Pinto J(1), Passos-Coelho JL(2), Lopes F(2), Ataíde M(3), Oliveira P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Hospital Beatriz Ângelo, Loures, Portugal
joaopamp@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Oncology, Hospital Beatriz Ângelo, Loures, Portugal.
(3)Department of Radiology, Hospital Beatriz Ângelo, Loures, Portugal.
(4)Department of Surgery, Hospital Beatriz Ângelo, Loures, Portugal.

We report the case of a 76-year-old female patient with early breast cancer
(hormone receptor-positive erbb2 amplified) that had started adjuvant
chemotherapy with docetaxel, carboplatin and trastuzumab (TCH). Eight days after 
the first cycle of TCH chemotherapy, the patient was diagnosed with grade 1 oral 
mucositis, treated conservatively. The next day she started with nausea,
vomiting, chills and fever, followed by a generalised tonicoclonic seizure. She
presented to the emergency department with fever, hypotension and mild abdominal 
tenderness. Grade 4 neutropenia (370 μL/mL) and severe metabolic acidosis were
documented. An abdominal CT scan documented extensive ischaemic bowel changes,
with gas in portal and mesenteric veins, and pneumoretroperitoneum. Despite broad
spectrum antibiotics and fluid resuscitation, she died 4 hours after admitted to 
hospital. Blood cultures collected on hospital admission eventually grew
Clostridium septicum bacteria, an extremely rare infection in patient with breast
cancer.

© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2020. No commercial re-use. See rights and
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2019-233778 
PMCID: PMC7247384 [Available on 2022-05-20]
PMID: 32439744 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.

