
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Oct;104(20):8679-8689. doi:
10.1007/s00253-020-10882-8. Epub 2020 Sep 11.

Milling byproducts are an economically viable substrate for butanol production
using clostridial ABE fermentation.

Thieme N(1), Panitz JC(1)(2), Held C(1)(3), Lewandowski B(4)(5), Schwarz
WH(1)(6), Liebl W(1), Zverlov V(7)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Technical University of Munich, Emil-Ramann-Str. 4, 85354, Freising, Germany.
(2)Technical University of Munich, Weihenstephaner Berg 3, 85354, Freising,
Germany.
(3)TDK Electronics AG, Rosenheimer Str. 141e, 81671, Munich, Germany.
(4)Fritzmeier Umwelttechnik GmbH & Co KG, Dorfstraße 7, 85653, Aying, Germany.
(5)Electrochaea GmbH, Semmelweisstrasse 3, 82152, Planegg, Germany.
(6)aspratis GmbH, Huebnerstrasse 11, 80637, Munich, Germany.
(7)Technical University of Munich, Emil-Ramann-Str. 4, 85354, Freising, Germany. 
vladimir.zverlov@tum.de.
(8)Institute of Molecular Genetics, RAS, Kurchatov Sq 2, 123128, Moscow, Russia. 
vladimir.zverlov@tum.de.

Butanol is a platform chemical that is utilized in a wide range of industrial
products and is considered a suitable replacement or additive to liquid fuels. So
far, it is mainly produced through petrochemical routes. Alternative production
routes, for example through biorefinery, are under investigation but are
currently not at a market competitive level. Possible alternatives, such as
acetone-butanol-ethanol (ABE) fermentation by solventogenic clostridia are not
market-ready to this day either, because of their low butanol titer and the high 
costs of feedstocks. Here, we analyzed wheat middlings and wheat red dog, two
wheat milling byproducts available in large quantities, as substrates for
clostridial ABE fermentation. We could identify ten strains that exhibited good
butanol yields on wheat red dog. Two of the best ABE producing strains,
Clostridium beijerinckii NCIMB 8052 and Clostridium diolis DSM 15410, were used
to optimize a laboratory-scale fermentation process. In addition, enzymatic
pretreatment of both milling byproducts significantly enhanced ABE production
rates of the strains C. beijerinckii NCIMB 8052 and C. diolis DSM 15410. Finally,
a profitability analysis was performed for small- to mid-scale ABE fermentation
plants that utilize enzymatically pretreated wheat red dog as substrate. The
estimations show that such a plant could be commercially successful.Key points•
Wheat milling byproducts are suitable substrates for clostridial ABE
fermentation.• Enzymatic pretreatment of wheat red dog and middlings increases
ABE yield.• ABE fermentation plants using wheat red dog as substrate are
economically viable. Graphical abstract.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10882-8 
PMID: 32915256 

