
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Aug 14;8(8). pii: E1239. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8081239.

EMS-Induced Mutagenesis of Clostridium carboxidivorans for Increased Atmospheric 
CO2 Reduction Efficiency and Solvent Production.

Lakhssassi N(1)(2), Baharlouei A(1), Meksem J(3), Hamilton-Brehm SD(4), Lightfoot
DA(2), Meksem K(2), Liang Y(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, 1230 Lincoln Drive,
Southern Illinois University Carbondale, Carbondale, IL 62901, USA.
(2)Department of Plant, Soil, and Agricultural Systems, Southern Illinois
University, Carbondale, IL 62901, USA.
(3)Trinity College of Arts and Sciences, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708, USA.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, IL
62901, USA.
(5)Department of Environmental and Sustainable Engineering, 1400 Washington Ave, 
State University of New York at Albany, Albany, NY 12222, USA.

Clostridium carboxidivorans (P7) is one of the most important solvent-producing
bacteria capable of fermenting syngas (CO, CO2, and H2) to produce chemical
commodities when grown as an autotroph. This study aimed to develop ethyl
methanesulfonate (EMS)-induced P7 mutants that were capable of growing in the
presence of CO2 as a unique source of carbon with increased solvent formation and
atmospheric CO2 reduction to limit global warming. Phenotypic analysis including 
growth and end product characterization of the P7 wild type (WT) demonstrated
that this strain grew better at 25 °C than 37 °C when CO2 served as the only
source of carbon. In the current study, 55 mutagenized P7-EMS mutants were
developed by using 100 mM and 120 mM EMS. Interestingly, using a forward genetic 
approach, three out of the 55 P7-EMS mutants showed a significant increase in
ethanol, butyrate, and butanol production. The three P7-EMS mutants presented on 
average a 4.68-fold increase in concentrations of ethanol when compared to the
P7-WT. Butyric acid production from 3 P7-EMS mutants contained an average of a
3.85 fold increase over the levels observed in the P7-WT cultures under the same 
conditions (CO2 only). In addition, one P7-EMS mutant presented butanol
production (0.23 ± 0.02 g/L), which was absent from the P7-WT under CO2
conditions. Most of the P7-EMS mutants showed stability of the obtained end
product traits after three transfers. Most importantly, the amount of reduced
atmospheric CO2 increased up to 8.72 times (0.21 g/Abs) for ethanol production
and up to 8.73 times higher (0.16 g/Abs) for butyrate than the levels contained
in the P7-WT. Additionally, to produce butanol, the P7-EMSIII-J mutant presented 
0.082 g/Abs of CO2 reduction. This study demonstrated the feasibility and
effectiveness of employing EMS mutagenesis in generating solvent-producing
anaerobic bacteria mutants with improved and novel product formation and
increased atmospheric CO2 reduction efficiency.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8081239 
PMCID: PMC7464951
PMID: 32824093 

