
1. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2020 Sep;117(9):2911-2917. doi: 10.1002/bit.27435. Epub 2020
Jun 4.

Enhancing plasmid transformation efficiency and enabling CRISPR-Cas9/Cpf1-based
genome editing in Clostridium tyrobutyricum.

Zhang J(1)(2), Hong W(1)(3), Guo L(4), Wang Y(1)(5), Wang Y(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosystems Engineering, Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama.
(2)Key Laboratory for Feed Biotechnology of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Affairs, Feed Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Beijing, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Endemic and Ethnic Diseases, Guizhou Medical University,
Ministry of Education, Guiyang, China.
(4)College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Ocean University of China,
Qingdao, China.
(5)Center for Bioenergy and Bioproducts, Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama.

Clostridium tyrobutyricum ATCC 25755 is known as a natural hyper-butyrate
producer with great potentials as an excellent platform to be engineered for
valuable biochemical production from renewable resources. However, limited
transformation efficiency and the lack of genetic manipulation tools have
hampered the broader applications of this micro-organism. In this study, the
effects of Type I restriction-modification system and native plasmid on
conjugation efficiency of C. tyrobutyricum were investigated through gene
deletion. The deletion of Type I restriction endonuclease resulted in a 3.7-fold 
increase in conjugation efficiency, while the additional elimination of the
native plasmid further enhanced conjugation efficiency to 6.05 ± 0.75 × 103
CFU/ml-donor, which was 15.3-fold higher than the wild-type strain. Fermentation 
results indicated that the deletion of those two genetic elements did not
significantly influence the end-products production in the resultant mutant
ΔRMIΔNP. Thanks to the increased conjugation efficiency, the CRISPR-Cas9/Cpf1
systems, which previously could not be implemented in C. tyrobutyricum, were
successfully employed for genome editing in ΔRMIΔNP with an efficiency of
12.5-25%. Altogether, approaches we developed herein offer valuable guidance for 
establishing efficient DNA transformation methods in nonmodel micro-organisms.
The ΔRMIΔNP mutant can serve as a great chassis to be engineered for diverse
valuable biofuel and biochemical production.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.27435 
PMID: 32437010 

