
1. J Anim Sci Biotechnol. 2020 Jun 17;11:61. doi: 10.1186/s40104-020-00462-1.
eCollection 2020.

A novel apidaecin Api-PR19 synergizes with the gut microbial community to
maintain intestinal health and promote growth performance of broilers.

Wu S(1), Wang J(1), Zhu L(1), Ren H(1), Yang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, 
Shaanxi China.

Background: Antibiotic growth promoters (AGPs) have been used as growth promoters
to maintain animal intestinal health and improve feed efficiency in broilers by
inhibiting pathogen proliferation. In view of the growing emergence of
antibiotic-resistant pathogen strains and drug residue issues, novel treatments
are increasingly required. This study aimed to compare two antimicrobial
approaches for managing pathogen infection and maintaining animal intestinal
health in broilers by supplying Apidaecin Api-PR19 and AGPs over 42 d of a
feeding trial.
Results: Compared with the broilers that were only fed a corn-soybean basal diet 
(CON group), supplementation with Api-PR19 and AGP (respectively named the ABP
and AGP groups) both increased the feed conversion efficiency. When compared with
the AGP group, Api-PR19 supplementation could significantly increase the organ
index of the bursa of fabricius and subtype H9 antibody level in broiler
chickens. Moreover, when compared with the CON group, the intestinal villus
height, intestinal nutrient transport, and intestinal sIgA content were all
increased in the Api-PR19 group, while AGP supplementation was harmful to the
intestinal villus height and intestinal nutrient transport. By assessing the
antibacterial effect of Api-PR19 and antibiotics in vitro and in vivo, we found
that Api-PR19 and antibiotics both inhibited the growth of pathogens, including
Escherichia coli and Campylobacter jejuni. Furthermore, by using 16S rRNA gene
sequencing, the beneficial bacteria and microbiota in broilers were not disturbed
but improved by apidaecin Api-PR19, including the genera of Eubacterium and
Christensenella and the species of uncultured_Eubacterium_sp,
Clostridium_asparagiforme, and uncultured_Christensenella_sp, which were
positively related to improved intestinal development, absorption, and immune
function.
Conclusion: Apidaecin Api-PR19 treatment could combat pathogen infection and had 
little negative impact on beneficial bacteria in the gut compared to antibiotic
treatment, subsequently improving intestinal development, absorption, and immune 
function.

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1186/s40104-020-00462-1 
PMCID: PMC7298829
PMID: 32551109 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no
competing financial interests.

