
1. AAPS PharmSciTech. 2020 Jul 31;21(6):214. doi: 10.1208/s12249-020-01769-y.

Electrospun Solid Formulation of Anaerobic Gut Microbiome Bacteria.

Vass P(1), Pantea E(1), Domokos A(1), Hirsch E(1), Domján J(1), Németh Á(2),
Molnár M(2), Fehér C(2), Andersen SK(3), Vigh T(3), Verreck G(3), Csontos I(1),
Marosi G(1), Nagy ZK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organic Chemistry and Technology, Budapest University of
Technology and Economics (BME), Műegyetem rakpart 3, Budapest, H-1111, Hungary.
(2)Department of Applied Biotechnology and Food Science, Budapest University of
Technology and Economics (BME), Műegyetem rakpart 3, Budapest, H-1111, Hungary.
(3)Oral Solids Development, Janssen R&D, Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340, Beerse,
Belgium.
(4)Department of Organic Chemistry and Technology, Budapest University of
Technology and Economics (BME), Műegyetem rakpart 3, Budapest, H-1111, Hungary.
zsknagy@oct.bme.hu.

A model anaerobic bacterium strain from the gut microbiome (Clostridium
butyricum) producing anti-inflammatory molecules was incorporated into
polymer-free fibers of a water-soluble cyclodextrin matrix (HP-β-CD) using a
promising scaled-up nanotechnology, high-speed electrospinning. A long-term
stability study was also carried out on the bacteria in the fibers. Effect of
storage conditions (temperature, presence of oxygen) and growth conditions on the
bacterial viability in the fibers was investigated. The viability of the
sporulated anaerobic bacteria in the fibers was maintained during 12 months of
room temperature storage in the presence of oxygen. Direct compression was used
to prepare tablets from the produced bacteria-containing fibers after milling
(using an oscillating mill) and mixing with tableting excipients, making easy
oral administration of the bacteria possible. No significant decrease was
observed in bacterial viability following the processing of the fibers (milling
and tableting).

DOI: 10.1208/s12249-020-01769-y 
PMCID: PMC7395030
PMID: 32737608 

