
1. IDCases. 2020 May 5;20:e00784. doi: 10.1016/j.idcr.2020.e00784. eCollection 2020.

Distant myonecrosis by atraumatic Clostridium septicum infection in a patient
with metastatic breast cancer.

Gray KM(1), Padilla PL(2), Sparks B(2), Dziewulski P(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.
(2)Division of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Texas
Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Surgery and Shriners Hospitals for Children, Galveston, TX, USA.

Clostridium septicum is an anaerobic, gram-positive bacillus known to cause
myonecrosis, also known as gas gangrene, a life-threatening necrotizing soft
tissue infection. Though it accounts for just 1 % of all infections attributable 
to Clostridia spp., C. septicum is a highly virulent and aggressive pathogen.
Classic presentations of infection include bacteremia resulting in shock,
myonecrosis, and vascular seeding. C. septicum-associated gas gangrene most
commonly occurs in the setting of traumatic injury, but has also been reported in
patients with colorectal malignancy, immunosuppression, neutropenia, and
exceedingly rare in association with breast cancer. We report the case of a
56-year-old female patient with stage IV mixed lobar and ductal breast carcinoma 
with metastasis to the bone and liver, who presented with spontaneous C. septicum
myonecrosis of the right hand. No prior traumatic injury was noted. Following
amputation of the right forearm, antibiotic treatment, and multiorgan support,
the patient passed following transition to palliative care. We hope to increase
awareness of this relatively uncommon, though potentially deadly pathogen, as
well as to discuss treatment options in patients infected with C. septicum.

Â© 2020 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.idcr.2020.e00784 
PMCID: PMC7218154
PMID: 32420030 

Conflict of interest statement: None.

