
1. 3 Biotech. 2020 Oct;10(10):420. doi: 10.1007/s13205-020-02415-x. Epub 2020 Sep 8.

Extension of the taxonomic coverage of the family GH126 outside Firmicutes and in
silico characterization of its non-catalytic terminal domains.

Kerényiová L(1), Janeček Š(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Protein Evolution, Institute of Molecular Biology, Slovak
Academy of Sciences, 84551 Bratislava, Slovakia.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of SS. Cyril
and Methodius, 91701 Trnava, Slovakia.

The family GH126 is a family of glycoside hydrolases established in 2011.
Officially, in the CAZy database, it counts ~ 1000 sequences originating solely
from bacterial phylum Firmicutes. Two members, the proteins CPF_2247 from
Clostridium perfringens and PssZ from Listeria monocytogenes have been
characterized as a probable α-amylase and an exopolysaccharide-specific
glycosidase, respectively; their three-dimensional structures being also solved
as possessing catalytic (α/α)6-barrel fold. Previously, based on a detailed in
silico analysis, the seven conserved sequence regions (CSRs) were identified for 
the family along with elucidating basic evolutionary relationships within the
family members. The present study represents a continuation study focusing on two
particular aims: (1) to find out whether the taxonomic coverage of the family
GH126 might be extended outside the Firmicutes and, if positive, to deliver those
out-of-Firmicutes proteins with putting them into the context of the family; and 
(2) to identify the family members containing the N- and/or C-terminal extensions
of their polypeptide chain, additional to the catalytic (α/α)6-barrel domain, and
perform the bioinformatics characterization of the extra domains. The main
results could be summarized as follows: (1) 17 bacterial proteins caught by BLAST
searches outside Firmicutes (especially from phyla Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria
and Bacteroidetes) have been found and convincingly suggested as new family GH126
members; and (2) a thioredoxin-like fold and various leucine-rich repeat motifs
identified by Phyre2 structure homology modelling have been recognized as extra
domains occurring most frequently in the N-terminal extensions of family GH126
members possessing a modular organization.

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-020-02415-x 
PMCID: PMC7479077
PMID: 32953382 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that they
have no conflict of interest in the publication.

