
1. mSphere. 2020 Jul 1;5(4). pii: e00424-20. doi: 10.1128/mSphere.00424-20.

Architecture and Self-Assembly of Clostridium sporogenes and Clostridium
botulinum Spore Surfaces Illustrate a General Protective Strategy across Spore
Formers.

Janganan TK(1)(2), Mullin N(1)(3), Dafis-Sagarmendi A(1)(2), Brunt J(4), Tzokov
SB(1)(2), Stringer S(4), Moir A(1)(2), Chaudhuri RR(1)(2), Fagan RP(1)(2), Hobbs 
JK(1)(3), Bullough PA(5)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Krebs Institute, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, University of Sheffield,
Sheffield, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Sheffield, Sheffield,
United Kingdom.
(4)Quadram Institute, Norwich, United Kingdom.
(5)Krebs Institute, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom
p.bullough@sheffield.ac.uk.

Spores, the infectious agents of many Firmicutes, are remarkably resilient cell
forms. Even distant relatives can have similar spore architectures although some 
display unique features; they all incorporate protective proteinaceous envelopes.
We previously found that Bacillus spores can achieve these protective properties 
through extensive disulfide cross-linking of self-assembled arrays of
cysteine-rich proteins. We predicted that this could be a mechanism employed by
spore formers in general, even those from other genera. Here, we tested this by
revealing in nanometer detail how the outer envelope (exosporium) in Clostridium 
sporogenes (surrogate for C. botulinum group I), and in other clostridial
relatives, forms a hexagonally symmetric semipermeable array. A cysteine-rich
protein, CsxA, when expressed in Escherichia coli, self-assembles into a highly
thermally stable structure identical to that of the native exosporium. Like the
exosporium, CsxA arrays require harsh "reducing" conditions for disassembly. We
conclude that in vivo, CsxA self-organizes into a highly resilient, disulfide
cross-linked array decorated with additional protein appendages enveloping the
forespore. This pattern is remarkably similar to that in Bacillus spores, despite
a lack of protein homology. In both cases, intracellular disulfide formation is
favored by the high lattice symmetry. We have identified cysteine-rich proteins
in many distantly related spore formers and propose that they may adopt a similar
strategy for intracellular assembly of robust protective structures.IMPORTANCE
Bacteria such as those causing botulism and anthrax survive harsh conditions and 
spread disease as spores. Distantly related species have similar spore
architectures with protective proteinaceous layers aiding adhesion and targeting.
The structures that confer these common properties are largely unstudied, and the
proteins involved can be very dissimilar in sequence. We identify CsxA as a
cysteine-rich protein that self-assembles in a two-dimensional lattice enveloping
the spores of several Clostridium species. We show that apparently unrelated
cysteine-rich proteins from very different species can self-assemble to form
remarkably similar and robust structures. We propose that diverse cysteine-rich
proteins identified in the genomes of a broad range of spore formers may adopt a 
similar strategy for assembly.

Copyright Â© 2020 Janganan et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSphere.00424-20 
PMCID: PMC7333573
PMID: 32611700 

