
1. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Apr 28;30(4):533-539. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1908.08054.

Biokinetics of protein degrading Clostridium cadaveris and Clostridium sporogenes
in batch and continuous mode of operations.

Koo T(1), Jannat MAH(1), Hwang S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Environmental Science and Engineering, Pohang University of
Science and Technology (POSTECH), Pohang, Gyeongbuk, Republic of Korea.

A quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (QPCR) was applied to estimate
biokinetic coefficients of Clostridium cadaveris and Clostridium sporogenes,
which utilize protein as carbon source. Experimental data of changes in peptone
concentration and 16S rRNA gene copy numbers of C. cadaveris and C. sporogenes
were fitted to model. The fourth-order Runge-Kutta approximation with non-linear 
least squared analysis was employed to solve the ordinary differential equations 
to estimate biokinetic coefficients. The maximum specific growth rate (μmax),
half saturation concentration (Ks), growth yield (Y), and decay coefficient (Kd) 
of C. cadaveris and C.sporogenes were 0.73 ± 0.05 and 1.35 ± 0.32 h-1, 6.07 ±
1.52 and 5.67 ± 1.53 g/L, 2.25 ± 0.75 × 1010 and 7.92 ± 3.71 × 109 copies/g,
0.002 ± 0.003 and 0.002 ± 0.001 h-1, respectively. The theoretical specific
growth rate of C. sporogenes always exceeded than that of C. cadaveris at peptone
concentration higher than 3.62 g/L. When the influent peptone concentration was
5.0 g/L, the concentration of C.cadaveris gradually decreased to the steady value
of 2.9 × 1010 copies/mL at 4 hours HRT, which indicates 67.1% of the initial
population reduction, but the wash out occurred at 1.9 and 3.2 hours HRTs. The
16S rRNA gene copy numbers of C. sporogenes gradually decreased to steady values 
ranging from 1.1 × 1010 to 2.9 × 1010 copies/mL. C. sporogenes species was
predicted to wash out at an HRT of 1.6 h.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1908.08054 
PMID: 31986562 

