
1. Anim Nutr. 2020 Sep;6(3):313-324. doi: 10.1016/j.aninu.2020.03.004. Epub 2020 Apr
20.

Over-processed meat and bone meal and phytase effects on broilers challenged with
subclinical necrotic enteritis: Part 1. Performance, intestinal lesions and pH,
bacterial counts and apparent ileal digestibility.

Zanu HK(1), Kheravii SK(1), Morgan NK(1), Bedford MR(2), Swick RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Environmental and Rural Science, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia.
(2)AB Vista, Marlborough, Wiltshire SN8 4AN, United Kingdom.

This feeding study investigated the hypothesis that over-processing of meat and
bone meal (MBM) would impair the performance, gut health and ileal digestibility 
of nutrients in birds challenged with necrotic enteritis (NE). The effect of
phytase (500 vs. 5,000 FTU/kg) was also examined using manufacturers recommended 
matrix values for 500 FTU for both levels. Ross 308 male broilers (n = 768) were 
assigned to 8 diets, with 6 replicate pens per diet and 16 birds per replicate
pen using a randomized design with a factorial arrangement of treatments. Factors
were NE challenge (no or yes), MBM (as received or over-processed), and phytase
level (500 or 5,000 FTU/kg). Half of the birds were challenged with 5,000 oocysts
of field strains of Eimeria acervulina and Eimeria brunetti, and 2,500 oocysts of
Eimeria maxima on d 9 and 108 CFU/mL of Clostridium perfringens strain EHE-NE18
on d 14 and 15 post-hatch. Challenge × MBM interactions were detected for weight 
gain (WG), feed conversion ratio (FCR) and feed intake (FI) at d 14, 21 and 28,
showing that challenged birds fed over-processed MBM had decreased WG (P < 0.05) 
and FI (P < 0.05) at d 14, increased FCR (P < 0.05) at d 21 and decreased WG
(P < 0.05) and FI (P > 0.05) at d 28. Birds fed low phytase had increased
livability (P < 0.05) at d 42. The challenge increased the prevalence and
severity of NE induced lesions in the jejunum (P < 0.05) and ileum (P < 0.05).
The birds fed over-processed MBM had decreased pH in the jejunum (P < 0.05) and
ileum (P < 0.05) at d 16. High phytase increased apparent ileal digestibility
(AID) of Ca (P < 0.05) and P (P < 0.05), and over-processed MBM increased AID of 
carbon (C; P < 0.05) and Ca (P < 0.05) at d 29. The challenge increased the
caecal counts of Lactobacillus spp. (P < 0.05) and C. perfringens (P < 0.05) at d
16. The results indicated that supplementation of diets with high phytase reduces
the negative impact on performance from over-processed MBM during NE as a result 
of increased nutrient digestibility.

© 2020 Chinese Association of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine. Production 
and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aninu.2020.03.004 
PMCID: PMC7503067
PMID: 33005765 

