
1. J Med Microbiol. 2020 Jun;69(6):797-805. doi: 10.1099/jmm.0.001107. Epub 2019 Nov
28.

Metagenome-wide association study of the alterations in the intestinal microbiome
composition of ankylosing spondylitis patients and the effect of traditional and 
herbal treatment.

Huang R(1), Li F(1), Zhou Y(2)(1), Zeng Z(1), He X(1), Fang L(1), Pan F(1), Chen 
Y(1), Lin J(3), Li J(1), Qiu D(4), Tian Y(1), Tan X(1), Song Y(1), Xu Y(1), Lai
Y(1), Yi H(1), Gao Q(1), Fang X(1), Shi M(1), Zhou C(1), Huang J(1), He YT(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Second Affiliated Hospital, Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine
(Guangdong Provincial Hospital of Chinese Medicine), Guangzhou 510120 or 510006, 
PR China.
(2)Postdoctoral Mobile Research Station, Guangzhou 510006, PR China.
(3)Nephropathy Center, The Affiliated Jiangmen TCM Hospital, Jinan University,
Jiangmen 529000, PR China.
(4)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Guangdong Armed Police Corps
Hospital, Guangzhou 510507, PR China.

Introduction. Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a systemic progressive disease with 
an unknown etiology that may be related to the gut microbiome. Therefore, a more 
thorough understanding of its pathogenesis is necessary for directing future
therapy.Aim. We aimed to determine the differences in intestinal microbial
composition between healthy individuals and patients with AS who received and who
did not receive treatment interventions. In parallel, the pathology of AS in each
patient was analysed to better understand the link between AS treatment and the
intestinal microbiota of the patients.Methodology. Sixty-six faecal DNA samples, 
including 37 from healthy controls (HCs), 11 from patients with untreated AS
(NM), 7 from patients treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (e.g.
celecoxib; WM) and 11 from patients treated with Chinese herbal medicine (CHM),
such as the Bushen-Qiangdu-Zhilv decoction, were collected and used in the drug
effect analysis. All samples were sequenced using Illumina HiSeq 4000 and the
microbial composition was determined.Results. Four species were enriched in the
patients with AS: Flavonifractor plautii, Oscillibacter, Parabacteroides
distasonis and Bacteroides nordii (HC vs. NM, P<0.05); only F. plautii was found 
to be significantly changed in the NM-HC comparison. No additional species were
found in the HC vs. CHM analysis, which indicated a beneficial effect of CHM in
removing the other three strains. F. plautii was found to be significantly
increased in the comparison between the HC and WM groups, along with four other
species (Clostridium bolteae, Clostridiales bacterium 1_7_47FAA, C. asparagiforme
and C. hathewayi). The patients with AS harboured more bacterial species
associated with carbohydrate metabolism and glycan biosynthesis in their faeces. 
They also had bacterial profiles less able to biodegrade xenobiotics or
synthesize and transport vitamins.Conclusion. The gut microbiota of the patients 
with AS varied from that of the HCs, and the treatment had an impact on this
divergence. Our data provide insight that could guide improvements in AS
treatment.

DOI: 10.1099/jmm.0.001107 
PMCID: PMC7451032
PMID: 31778109  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

