
1. Heliyon. 2020 Aug 21;6(8):e04715. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e04715. eCollection
2020 Aug.

Discovery and characterisation of circular bacteriocin plantacyclin B21AG from
Lactiplantibacillus plantarum B21.

Golneshin A(1)(2), Gor MC(1), Williamson N(3), Vezina B(4), Van TTH(1), May
BK(1), Smith AT(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Sciences, RMIT University, Bundoora, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Edlyn Foods Pty, 3 Ricky Way, Epping, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Mass Spectrometry and Proteomics Facility, The Bio21 Molecular Science and
Biotechnology Institute, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
(4)Griffith Institute for Drug Discovery, Griffith University, Nathan,
Queensland, Australia.

Lactiplantibacillus plantarum B21 isolated from Vietnamese sausage (nem chua) has
previously displayed broad antimicrobial activity against Gram-positive bacteria 
including foodborne pathogens Listeria monocytogenes and Clostridium perfringens.
This study successfully identified the antimicrobial agent as plantacyclin B21AG,
a 5668 Da circular bacteriocin demonstrating high thermostability, resistance to 
a wide range of pH, proteolytic resistance and temporal stability. We report a
reverse genetics approach to identify and characterise plantacyclin B21AG from
first principles. The bacteriocin was purified from culture supernatant by a
three-step process consisting of concentration, n-butanol extraction and cation
exchange chromatography. A de novo peptide sequencing using LC-MS/MS techniques
identified two putative peptide fragments which were mapped to the genome
sequence of L. plantarum B21. This revealed an ORF corresponding to a putative
circular bacteriocin with a 33-amino acid leader peptide and a 58-amino acid
mature peptide encoded on a native plasmid pB21AG01. The bacteriocin is shown to 
be a small cationic predominantly α-helical protein (69%). The corresponding gene
cluster, consisted of seven genes associated with post-translational
circularisation, immunity and secretion. Whilst plantacyclin B21AG is 86%
identical to the newly published plantaricyclin A it is more highly cationic
having a net charge of +3 due to an additional basic residue in the putative
membrane interaction region. This and other substitutions may well go some way to
explaining functional differences. The robust nature of plantacyclin B21AG, its
antimicrobial activity and associated machinery for cyclisation make it an
interesting biotechnological target for development, both as a food-safe
antimicrobial or potentially a platform technology for recombinant protein
circularisation.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e04715 
PMCID: PMC7452424
PMID: 32904251 

