
1. New Microbes New Infect. 2019 Oct 15;32:100612. doi: 10.1016/j.nmni.2019.100612. 
eCollection 2019 Nov.

Molecular epidemiology of Clostridium neonatale and its relationship with the
occurrence of necrotizing enterocolitis in preterm neonates.

Hosny M(1), Baptiste E(1), Levasseur A(1), La Scola B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Aix-Marseille Université UM63, Institut de Recherche pour le Développement IRD
198, Assistance Publique, Hôpitaux de Marseille (AP-HM), Microbes, Evolution,
Phylogeny and Infection (MEΦI), Institut Hospitalo-Universitaire (IHU),
Méditerranée Infection, France.

Clostridia-especially Clostridium butyricum-are among the taxa most frequently
identified from stool samples of preterm neonates with necrotizing enterocolitis 
(NEC). Recently, Clostridium neonatale has also been detected from epidemic
cases, but using a culture-based approach we were unable to confirm this
discovery in a local cohort. In order to investigate this link by a molecular
approach, a specific rpoB-based quantitative real-time PCR was developed to
detect C. neonatale directly from patients' stool specimens. Design of this
rpoB-based quantitative real-time PCR was based on the genomic analysis of seven 
clinical isolates of C. neonatale. It was tested on stool samples from 88 preterm
neonates with necrotizing enterocolitis and 71 matched controls. C. neonatale was
significantly more prevalent in stools from preterm neonates with necrotizing
enterocolitis than in controls (respectively 30/88 (34%) versus 9/71 (13%); p
0.003). Whole-genome analysis also allowed the identification of three genomic
clusters of C. neonatale. This clustering was associated with a geographical
location regardless of isolation from the NEC or control, suggesting asymptomatic
carriage. Although less prevalent than C. butyricum in our cohort, C. neonatale
is significantly associated with the occurrence of necrotizing enterocolitis.

© 2019 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.nmni.2019.100612 
PMCID: PMC6849425
PMID: 31737279 

