
1. BMJ Open. 2020 Sep 29;10(9):e037534. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-037534.

Proton pump inhibitors versus histamine-2 receptor antagonists for stress ulcer
prophylaxis during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation: a propensity
score-matched analysis.

Kondo Y(1)(2), Ohbe H(2), Matsui H(2), Fushimi K(3), Tanaka H(4), Yasunaga H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Emergency and Critical Care Medicine, Juntendo University
Urayasu Hospital, Urayasu, Chiba, Japan kondokondou2000@yahoo.co.jp.
(2)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Health Economics, School of Public
Health, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Health Care Policy and Informatics, Tokyo Medical and Dental University,
Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Department of Emergency and Critical Care Medicine, Juntendo University
Urayasu Hospital, Urayasu, Chiba, Japan.

PURPOSE: Patients receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) generally 
receive proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) or histamine-2 receptor antagonists (H2RAs)
to avoid major gastrointestinal bleeding. Our aim was to compare outcomes between
patients receiving PPIs and H2RAs for stress ulcer prophylaxis during ECMO.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a retrospective cohort study using the
Japanese Diagnosis Procedure Combination Database, using data recorded from 1
July 2010 to 31 March 2017. We defined patients who received PPIs within 2 days
after starting ECMO as the PPIs group and those who received H2RAs within 2 days 
after starting ECMO as the H2RAs group. We performed propensity score matching to
compare outcomes. The primary outcomes were gastrointestinal bleeding requiring
endoscopic haemostasis and in-hospital mortality. The secondary outcomes were red
blood cell transfusion, hospital-acquired pneumonia and Clostridium difficile
infection during hospitalisation.
RESULTS: Of 11 328 eligible patients, 9738 received PPIs and 1590 received H2RAs.
Propensity score matching created 1556 pairs. No significant differences were
seen regarding endoscopic haemostasis (1.2% vs 0.8%; p=0.37), in-hospital
mortality (53.0% vs 53.1%; p=0.94), red blood cell transfusion rates (91.4% vs
89.7%; p=0.11), hospital-acquired pneumonia (13.0% vs 12.4%; p=0.59) or C.
difficile infection (0.1% vs 0.2%; p=0.32) between the PPIs and H2RAs groups,
respectively.
CONCLUSION: We found no differences in the evaluated outcomes between the PPIs
and H2RAs groups. Both PPIs and H2RAs are treatment options for stress ulcer
prophylaxis in patients undergoing ECMO.

Â© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-037534 
PMID: 32994240 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.

