
1. Mediterr J Hematol Infect Dis. 2020 Mar 1;12(1):e2020014. doi:
10.4084/MJHID.2020.014. eCollection 2020.

The Impact of Chemotherapy after Pediatric Malignancy on Humoral Immunity to
Vaccine-Preventable Diseases.

Garonzi C(1), Balter R(1), Tridello G(1), Pegoraro A(1), Pegoraro M(2), Pacenti
M(3), Scattolo N(4), Cesaro S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pediatric Hematology Oncology, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata
Verona, Italy.
(2)Microbiology and Virology Unit, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata
Verona, Italy.
(3)Microbiology and Virology Unit, Padova University Hospital, Padova, Italy.
(4)Ospedale di San Bonifacio, Azienda AULSS 9 Scaligera, Verona, Italy.

Background/Aim: The antibody titer of vaccine-preventable diseases in pediatric
patients who underwent chemotherapy was assessed in order to evaluate the
seroprotection after treatment and the feasibility and the efficacy of a policy
of revaccination.
Methods: Serum antibody titers of 55 patients for hepatitis B (HBV), rubella,
varicella-zoster (VZV), measles, mumps, polio viruses, Clostridium tetani (C.
tetani) and Streptococcus pneumoniae (S. pneumoniae) were analysed.Results: After
chemotherapy, a lack of protective antibody titers against HBV, rubella, VZV,
measles, mumps, polio viruses, C. tetani, and S. pneumoniae was found in 53%,
45%, 46%, 46%, 43%, 21-26%, 88% and 55% of patients, respectively. In 49 of 55
patients who were tested both before and after chemotherapy for at least a
pathogen, the loss of immunity for HBV, rubella, VZV, measles, mumps, polio
viruses and C. tetani was respectively 39%, 43%, 38%, 42%, 32%, 33%, and 80%. A
low number of B-lymphocytes was associated with the loss of immunity against
measles (p=0.04) whereas a high number of CD8+ T-lymphocytes was associated with 
the loss of immunity against VZV (p=0.03). A single booster of vaccine dose
resulted in a seroprotection for HBV, rubella, VZV, measles, mumps, polio
viruses, C. tetani and S. pneumoniae in 67%, 83%, 80%, 67%, 33%, 100%, 88% and
67% of patients, respectively.
Conclusions: We confirm that seroprotection for vaccine-preventable diseases is
affected by treatment for pediatric malignancy. A single booster dose of vaccine 
might be a practical way to restore vaccine immunity in patients after
chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.4084/MJHID.2020.014 
PMCID: PMC7059740
PMID: 32180909 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no
conflict of Interest.

