
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Sep 9. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02182-1. [Epub ahead of
print]

The Draft Genome Sequence of Clostridium butyricum QXYZ514, a Potent Bacterium
for Converting Glycerol into Fuels and Bioproducts in the Waste-Based
Biorefinery.

Yang M(1), Zabed HM(1), Yun J(1), Zhang G(1), Qi X(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Jiangsu University, 301 Xuefu Road,
Zhenjiang, 212013, Jiangsu, China.
(2)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Jiangsu University, 301 Xuefu Road,
Zhenjiang, 212013, Jiangsu, China. qxh@ujs.edu.cn.

An anaerobic bacterium Clostridium buturicum QXYZ514 was isolated from a pond
soil sample located neighboring to a biodiesel factory. This bacterium possesses 
excellent metabolic features for converting biodiesel-derived glycerol into
various bioproducts, including 1,3-propanediol, butyrate, lactate, and acetate,
and fuels, like ethanol and butanol. To further improve the yield of the target
products and minimize the production of the by-products, the whole genome
sequence of this multipurpose strain might provide necessary genetic information,
and hence, the complete genome of QXYZ514 strain was sequenced using the PacBio
RS II sequencing method. According to the complete genome sequence, the genome of
QXYZ514 consisted of two circular chromosomes with a total of 4,636,461Â bp, where
GC content was found to be 28.76%. Major predicted features of the genome
included a total of 4220 coding sequences (CDS), 87 tRNAs genes, and 36 rRNAs
genes, which were annotated with the help of different databases for a better
understanding of this strain. Six possible CRISPR components were also predicted 
in the genome. The exploration of the complete genome sequence of the QXYZ514
strain would have the potential to enrich the diversity of this species, and to
recognize some significant hydrolytic enzymes, which could provide the references
for overcoming the bottlenecks in the biorefinery usage of this bacterium in the 
valorization of biodiesel-derived glycerol.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02182-1 
PMID: 32902703 

