
1. Biosensors (Basel). 2020 Aug 12;10(8). pii: E98. doi: 10.3390/bios10080098.

Docking Simulation and Sandwich Assay for Aptamer-Based Botulinum Neurotoxin Type
C Detection.

Oh IH(1), Park DY(1), Cha JM(1), Shin WR(1), Ahn JY(1), Kim YH(1), Kim JH(2), Kim
SC(2), Cho BK(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Chungbuk National University, 1 Chungdae-Ro,
Seowon-Gu, Cheongju 28644, Korea.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology, 291 Daehak-ro, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 34141, Korea.

Aptamers are biomaterials that bind to a target molecule through a unique
structure, and have high applicability in the diagnostic and medical fields. To
effectively utilize aptamers, it is important to analyze the structure of the
aptamer binding to the target molecule; however, there are difficulties in
experimentally identifying this structure. In the modern pharmaceutical industry,
computer-driven docking simulations that predict intermolecular binding models
are used to select candidates that effectively bind target molecules. Botulinum
toxin (BoNT) is the most poisonous neurotoxin produced from the Clostridium
botulinum bacteria, and BoNT/C, one of the eight serotypes, causes paralysis in
livestock. In this study, the aptamers that bound to BoNT/C were screened via the
systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment, and the binding
affinity analysis and binding model were evaluated to select optimal aptamers.
Based on surface plasmon resonance analysis and molecular operating environment
docking simulation, a pair of aptamers that had high binding affinity to BoNT/C
and were bound to different BoNT/C sites were selected. A sandwich assay based on
this aptamer pair detected the BoNT/C protein to a concentration as low as ~0.2
ng Ml-1. These results show that docking simulations are a useful strategy for
screening aptamers that bind to specific targets.

DOI: 10.3390/bios10080098 
PMCID: PMC7460441
PMID: 32806662 

