
1. Andrologia. 2020 Jul 6:e13733. doi: 10.1111/and.13733. [Epub ahead of print]

Patient-reported outcomes from a single-centre prospective post-marketing study
on Collagenase Clostridium Histolyticum injections for Peyronie's disease.

Jensen CFS(1)(2), Jacobsen FM(1), Quallich S(2), Fode M(1), Sønksen J(1), Malaeb 
BS(2), Ohl DA(2); CopMich Collaborative.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Herlev and Gentofte Hospital, University of Copenhagen,
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Department of Urology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

The aim of this study was to evaluate patient-reported outcomes of Collagenase
Clostridium Histolyticum (CCHi) for Peyronie's Disease. Patients treated with 2-4
cycles of CCHi between 01/2016 and 08/2018 were asked to fill out the "bother
domain" of the Peyronie's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ) at scheduled appointments
for injections. CCHi cycles involved two injections (0.58 mg) separated by
48-72 hr. During the study, 34 patients were treated, seven patients were
excluded due to incomplete baseline values. Mean (standard deviation) PDQ bother 
domain baseline score was 11.1 (2.6). ANOVA demonstrated statistically
significant effects of injections (p < .001) with a decrease in PDQ bother domain
scores 6 weeks after the 1st cycle (9.9 [3.3], p = .013), 6 weeks after the 2nd
cycle (8.2 [4.0], p = .009) and 6 weeks after the 3rd cycle (6.5 [3.6],
p < .001). After 2-4 cycles of CCHi treatment, patients reported changes in
penile curvature as "Worse" (0), "No Change" (2), "Little decrease" (10),
Decrease (10) and "Significant decrease" (4). After completion of CCHi treatment,
82% of patients still reported that vaginal intercourse was difficult or
impossible. Patients with Peyronie's Disease undergoing CCHi treatment reported
statistically significant decreases in PDQ bother domain scores. However, most
patients still report difficulty with intercourse after treatment.

© 2020 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/and.13733 
PMID: 32628291 

