
1. Toxins (Basel). 2020 May 15;12(5). pii: E328. doi: 10.3390/toxins12050328.

Tetanus Toxin Synthesis is Under the Control of A Complex Network of Regulatory
Genes in Clostridium tetani.

Chapeton-Montes D(1), Plourde L(2), Deneve C(1), Garnier D(2), Barbirato F(2),
Colombié V(2), Demay S(2), Haustant G(1), Gorgette O(3), Schmitt C(3), Thouvenot 
C(3), Brüggemann H(4), Popoff MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bactéries anaérobies et Toxines, Institut Pasteur, 75724 Paris, France.
(2)Sanofi-Pasteur, 69280 Marcy l'Etoile, France.
(3)Unité Technologie et Service Bioimagerie Ultrastructurale, Institut Pasteur,
75724 Paris, France.
(4)Department of Biomedicine, Aarhus University, 8000 Aarhus, Denmark.

Clostridium tetani produces a potent neurotoxin, the tetanus toxin (TeNT), which 
is responsible for an often-fatal neurological disease (tetanus) characterized by
spastic paralysis. Prevention is efficiently acquired by vaccination with the
TeNT toxoid, which is obtained by C. tetani fermentation and subsequent
purification and chemical inactivation. C. tetani synthesizes TeNT in a regulated
manner. Indeed, the TeNT gene (tent) is mainly expressed in the late exponential 
and early stationary growth phases. The gene tetR (tetanus regulatory gene),
located immediately upstream of tent, encodes an alternative sigma factor which
was previously identified as a positive regulator of tent. In addition, the
genome of C. tetani encodes more than 127 putative regulators, including 30
two-component systems (TCSs). Here, we investigated the impact of 12 regulators
on TeNT synthesis which were selected based on their homology with related
regulatory elements involved in toxin production in other clostridial species.
Among nine TCSs tested, three of them impact TeNT production, including two
positive regulators that indirectly stimulate tent and tetR transcription. One
negative regulator was identified that interacts with both tent and tetR
promoters. Two other TCSs showed a moderate effect: one binds to the tent
promoter and weakly increases the extracellular TeNT level, and another one has a
weak inverse effect. In addition, CodY (control of dciA (decoyinine induced
operon) Y) but not Spo0A (sporulation stage 0) or the DNA repair protein Mfd
(mutation frequency decline) positively controls TeNT synthesis by interacting
with the tent promoter. Moreover, we found that inorganic phosphate and carbonate
are among the environmental factors that control TeNT production. Our data show
that TeNT synthesis is under the control of a complex network of regulators that 
are largely distinct from those involved in the control of toxin production in
Clostridium botulinum or Clostridium difficile.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins12050328 
PMCID: PMC7290440
PMID: 32429286 

