
1. EFSA J. 2020 Apr 29;18(4):e06091. doi: 10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6091. eCollection 2020
Apr.

The use of the so-called 'tubs' for transporting and storing fresh fishery
products.

EFSA Panel on Biological Hazards (BIOHAZ), Koutsoumanis K, Allende A,
Alvarez-Ordóñez A, Bolton D, Chemaly M, Davies R, De Cesare A, Herman L, Hilbert 
F, Lindqvist R, Nauta M, Peixe L, Ru G, Simmons M, Skandamis P, Suffredini E,
Arason S, Bekaert K, García MR, Georgiadis M, Messens W, Mosbach-Schulz O,
Bover-Cid S.

On-land transport/storage of fresh fishery products (FFP) for up to 3 days in
'tubs' of three-layered poly-ethylene filled with freshwater and ice was compared
to the currently authorised practice (fish boxes of high-density poly-ethylene
filled with ice). The impact on the survival and growth of biological hazards in 
fish and the histamine production in fish species associated with a high amount
of histidine was assessed. In different modelling scenarios, the FFP are stored
on-board in freshwater or seawater/ice (in tubs) and once on-land they are
'handled' (i.e. sorted or gutted and/or filleted) and transferred to either tubs 
or boxes. The temperature of the FFP was assumed to be the most influential
factor affecting relevant hazards. Under reasonably foreseeable 'abusive'
scenarios and using a conservative modelling approach, the growth of the relevant
hazards (i.e. Listeria monocytogenes, Aeromonas spp. and non-proteolytic
Clostridium botulinum), is expected to be < 0.2 log10 units higher in tubs than
in boxes after 3 days when the initial temperature of the fish is 0°C ('keeping' 
process). Starting at 7°C ('cooling-keeping' process), the expected difference in
the growth potential is higher (< 1 log10 for A. hydrophila and < 0.5 log10 for
the other two hazards) due to the poorer cooling capacity of water and ice (tub) 
compared with ice (box). The survival of relevant hazards is not or is negligibly
impacted. Histamine formation due to growth of Morganella psychrotolerans under
the 'keeping' or 'cooling-keeping' process can be up to 0.4 ppm and 1.5 ppm
higher, respectively, in tubs as compared to boxes after 3 days, without reaching
the legal limit of 100 ppm. The water uptake associated with the storage of the
FFP in tubs (which may be up to 6%) does not make a relevant contribution to the 
differences in microbial growth potential compared to boxes.

© 2020 European Food Safety Authority. EFSA Journal published by John Wiley and
Sons Ltd on behalf of European Food Safety Authority.

DOI: 10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6091 
PMCID: PMC7448070
PMID: 32874299 

