
1. J Bacteriol. 2020 Sep 23;202(20). pii: e00233-20. doi: 10.1128/JB.00233-20. Print
2020 Sep 23.

Diverse Energy-Conserving Pathways in Clostridium difficile: Growth in the
Absence of Amino Acid Stickland Acceptors and the Role of the Wood-Ljungdahl
Pathway.

Gencic S(1), Grahame DA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Uniformed Services
University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Uniformed Services
University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, Maryland, USA
david.grahame@usuhs.edu.

Clostridium difficile is the leading cause of hospital-acquired
antibiotic-associated diarrhea and is the only widespread human pathogen that
contains a complete set of genes encoding the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway (WLP). In
acetogenic bacteria, synthesis of acetate from 2 CO2 molecules by the WLP
functions as a terminal electron accepting pathway; however, C. difficile
contains various other reductive pathways, including a heavy reliance on
Stickland reactions, which questions the role of the WLP in this bacterium. In
rich medium containing high levels of electron acceptor substrates, only trace
levels of key WLP enzymes were found; therefore, conditions were developed to
adapt C. difficile to grow in the absence of amino acid Stickland acceptors.
Growth conditions were identified that produce the highest levels of WLP
activity, determined by Western blot analyses of the central component acetyl
coenzyme A synthase (AcsB) and assays of other WLP enzymes. Fermentation
substrate and product analyses, enzyme assays of cell extracts, and
characterization of a Î”acsB mutant demonstrated that the WLP functions to dispose
of metabolically generated reducing equivalents. While WLP activity in C.
difficile does not reach the levels seen in classical acetogens, coupling of the 
WLP to butyrate formation provides a highly efficient system for regeneration of 
NAD+ "acetobutyrogenesis," requiring only low flux through the pathways to
support efficient ATP production from glucose oxidation. Additional insights
redefine the amino acid requirements in C. difficile, explore the relationship of
the WLP to toxin production, and provide a rationale for colocalization of genes 
involved in glycine synthesis and cleavage within the WLP operon.IMPORTANCE
Clostridium difficile is an anaerobic, multidrug-resistant, toxin-producing
pathogen with major health impacts worldwide. It is the only widespread pathogen 
harboring a complete set of Wood-Ljungdahl pathway (WLP) genes; however, the role
of the WLP in C. difficile is poorly understood. In other anaerobic bacteria and 
archaea, the WLP can operate in one direction to convert CO2 to acetic acid for
biosynthesis or in either direction for energy conservation. Here, conditions are
defined in which WLP levels in C. difficile increase markedly, functioning to
support metabolism of carbohydrates. Amino acid nutritional requirements were
better defined, with new insight into how the WLP and butyrate pathways act in
concert, contributing significantly to energy metabolism by a mechanism that may 
have broad physiological significance within the group of nonclassical acetogens.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.00233-20 
PMCID: PMC7515248
PMID: 32967909 

