
1. Poult Sci. 2020 Oct;99(10):4914-4928. doi: 10.1016/j.psj.2020.06.030. Epub 2020
Jul 3.

Interactive effect of dietary calcium and phytase on broilers challenged with
subclinical necrotic enteritis: part 2. Gut permeability, phytate ester
concentrations, jejunal gene expression, and intestinal morphology.

Zanu HK(1), Kheravii SK(1), Morgan NK(1), Bedford MR(2), Swick RA(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Environmental and Rural Science, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia.
(2)AB Vista, Marlborough, Wiltshire SN8 4AN, United Kingdom.
(3)School of Environmental and Rural Science, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia. Electronic address: rswick@une.edu.au.

Calcium has the capacity to interact with phytate-P to form Ca-phytate complexes 
and decrease the ability of exogenous phytase to degrade phytic acid. This study 
investigated the hypothesis that high dietary Ca would impair gut permeability,
phytate esters (inositol x-phosphate, IPx: IP3, IP4, IP5, and IP6) degradation,
jejunal gene expression, and intestinal morphology. Ross 308 day-old male
broilers (n = 768) were distributed into 48-floor pens each housing 16 birds in a
factorial arrangement. Factors were NE challenge-no or yes; phytase level of 500 
or 1,500 FTU/kg, and Ca level 0.6 or 1.0% starter, 0.5 or 0.9% grower, 0.4 or
0.8% finisher with available P in each phase. Challenged birds were gavaged with 
3 field strains of Eimeria on day 9 and 108 CFU per mL of Clostridium perfringens
Strain EHE-NE18 on day 14 and day 15. A phytase × Ca interaction was observed in 
the ileum for IP3 (P < 0.01), IP4 (P < 0.05), and IP6 (P < 0.01). The IP3 and IP4
concentrations were similar for both doses of phytase in the presence of low Ca, 
but with high Ca, both increased significantly but to a greater extent when the
high dose of phytase was used. While IP6 concentrations were low and similar
between both doses of phytase at low Ca levels, increasing dietary Ca levels
increased IP6 concentrations regardless of phytase dose, but the effect was
greater in the low phytase diet. A phytase × Ca interaction was detected for
vitamin D receptor (VDR) (P < 0.05) expression where bird fed low phytase and low
Ca recorded the highest expression of VDR, all other treatments being equivalent.
The challenge decreased crypt depth to villus height ratio (P < 0.001). Challenge
birds had higher fluorescein isothiocyanate dextran (P < 0.05) in blood compared 
with unchallenged birds. Thus, high Ca and high phytase, while not the best for
IP6 destruction, did not lead to huge reductions in indicators of gut health.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psj.2020.06.030 
PMID: 32988528 

