
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Sep 3;10(1):14517. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-71428-6.

Transcriptomic analysis of a Clostridium thermocellum strain engineered to
utilize xylose: responses to xylose versus cellobiose feeding.

Tafur Rangel AE(1)(2), Croft T(3), González Barrios AF(1), Reyes LH(4), Maness
PC(5), Chou KJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)Grupo de Diseño de Productos Y Procesos (GDPP), Department of Chemical and
Food Engineering, Universidad de los Andes, Bogotá, Colombia.
(2)Grupo de Investigación CINBIOS, Department of Microbiology, Universidad
Popular del Cesar, Valledupar-Cesar, Colombia.
(3)Biosciences Center, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO, USA.
(4)Grupo de Diseño de Productos Y Procesos (GDPP), Department of Chemical and
Food Engineering, Universidad de los Andes, Bogotá, Colombia.
lh.reyes@uniandes.edu.co.
(5)Biosciences Center, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO, USA.
PinChing.Maness@nrel.gov.
(6)Biosciences Center, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO, USA.
Katherine.chou@nrel.gov.

Clostridium (Ruminiclostridium) thermocellum is recognized for its ability to
ferment cellulosic biomass directly, but it cannot naturally grow on xylose.
Recently, C. thermocellum (KJC335) was engineered to utilize xylose through
expressing a heterologous xylose catabolizing pathway. Here, we compared KJC335's
transcriptomic responses to xylose versus cellobiose as the primary carbon source
and assessed how the bacteria adapted to utilize xylose. Our analyses revealed
417 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) with log2 fold change (FC) >|1| and 106
highly DEGs (log2 FC >|2|). Among the DEGs, two putative sugar transporters, cbpC
and cbpD, were up-regulated, suggesting their contribution to xylose transport
and assimilation. Moreover, the up-regulation of specific transketolase genes
(tktAB) suggests the importance of this enzyme for xylose metabolism. Results
also showed remarkable up-regulation of chemotaxis and motility associated genes 
responding to xylose feeding, as well as widely varying gene expression in those 
encoding cellulosomal enzymes. For the down-regulated genes, several were
categorized in gene ontology terms oxidation-reduction processes, ATP binding and
ATPase activity, and integral components of the membrane. This study informs
potentially critical, enabling mechanisms to realize the conceptually attractive 
Next-Generation Consolidated BioProcessing approach where a single species is
sufficient for the co-fermentation of cellulose and hemicellulose.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-71428-6 
PMCID: PMC7471329
PMID: 32884054 

