
1. Med Hypotheses. 2020 Aug;141:109779. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2020.109779. Epub 2020
Apr 22.

SARS - CoV-2: Reasons of epidemiology of severe ill disease cases and therapeutic
approach using trivalent vaccine (tetanus, diphtheria and Bordetella pertussis).

Ietto G(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Insubria, Varese (ITALY) via Pietro Verri 12, 21100 Varese,
Italy. Electronic address: giuseppe.ietto@gmail.com.

The novel coronavirus Covid-19 follows transmission route and clinical
presentation of all community-acquired coronaviruses. Instead, the rate of
transmission is significative higher, with a faster spread of the virus
responsible of the worldwide outbreak and a significative higher mortality rate
due to the development of a severe lung injury. Most noteworthy is the
distribution of death rate among age groups. Children and younger people are
almost protected from severe clinical presentation. Possible explanation of this 
phenomenon could be the ability of past vaccinations (especially tetanic,
diphtheria toxoids and inactivated bacteria as pertussis) to stimulate immune
system and to generate a scattered immunity against non-self antigens in transit,
as coronaviruses and other community-circulating viruses and make immune system
readier to develop specific immunity against Covid-19. The first support to this 
hypothesis is the distribution of mortality rate during historical pandemics
("Spanish flu" 1918, "Asian flu" 1956 and "the Hong Kong flu" 1968) among age
groups before and after the introduction of vaccines. The immunological support
to the hypothesis derives from recent studies about immunotherapy for
malignancies, which propose the use of oncolytic vaccines combined with toxoids
in order to exploit CD4 + memory T cell recall in supporting the ongoing
anti-tumour response. According to this hypothesis vaccine formulations (tetanus,
diphtheria, Bordetella pertussis) could be re-administrate after the first
contact with Covid-19, better before the development of respiratory severe
illness and of course before full-blown ARDS (Acute Respiratory Distress
Syndrome). The CD4 + memory exploiting could help immune system to recall
immunity of already know antigens against coronaviruses, avoiding or limiting
"lung crash" until virus specific immunity develops and making it faster and
prolonged. Finally, this administration could be helpful not only in already
infected patients, but also before infection. In fact, people could have an
immune system more ready when the contact with the Covid-19 will occur.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2020.109779 
PMCID: PMC7175879
PMID: 32387756  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

