
1. Bioengineering (Basel). 2020 Sep 22;7(3). pii: E116. doi:
10.3390/bioengineering7030116.

A Small Study of Bacterial Contamination of Anaerobic Digestion Materials and
Survival in Different Feed Stocks.

Russell L(1)(2), Whyte P(2), Zintl A(2), Gordon S(2), Markey B(2), de Waal T(2), 
Cummins E(3), Nolan S(4), O'Flaherty V(4), Abram F(4), Richards K(5), Fenton
O(5), Bolton D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Teagasc Food Research Centre, Ashtown, Dublin 15, Ireland.
(2)School of Veterinary Medicine, University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, 
Ireland.
(3)School of Biosystems and Food Engineering, University College Dublin,
Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland.
(4)School of Natural Sciences, National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland.
(5)Teagasc Environmental Research Centres, Johnstown Castle, Wexford, Ireland.

If pathogens are present in feedstock materials and survive in anaerobic
digestion (AD) formulations at 37 °C, they may also survive the AD process to be 
disseminated in digestate spread on farmland as a fertilizer. The aim of this
study was to investigate the prevalence of Salmonella spp., Escherichia coli
O157, Listeria monocytogenes, Enterococcus faecalis and Clostridium spp. in AD
feed and output materials and survival/growth in four formulations based on food 
waste, bovine slurry and/or grease-trap waste using International Organization
for Standardization (ISO) or equivalent methods. The latter was undertaken in 100
mL Ramboldi tubes, incubated at 37 °C for 10 d with surviving cells enumerated
periodically and the T90 values (time to achieve a 1 log reduction) calculated.
The prevalence rates for Salmonella spp., Escherichia coli O157, Listeria
monocytogenes, Enterococcus faecalis and Clostridium spp. were 3, 0, 5, 11 and
10/13 in food waste, 0, 0, 2, 3 and 2/3 in bovine slurry, 1, 0, 8, 7 and 8/8 in
the mixing tank, 5, 1, 17, 18 and 17 /19 in raw digestate and 0, 0, 0, 2 and 2/2 
in dried digestate, respectively. Depending on the formulation, T90 values ranged
from 1.5 to 2.8 d, 1.6 to 2.8 d, 3.1 to 23.5 d, 2.2 to 6.6 d and 2.4 to 9.1 d for
Salmonella Newport, Escherichia coli O157, Listeria monocytogenes, Enterococcus
faecalis and Clostridium sporogenes, respectively. It was concluded that AD feed 
materials may be contaminated with a range of bacterial pathogens and L.
monocytogenes may survive for extended periods in the test formulations incubated
at 37 °C.

DOI: 10.3390/bioengineering7030116 
PMID: 32972002 

