
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Mar;70(3):2059-2065. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004015.

Blautia faecicola sp. nov., isolated from faeces from a healthy human.

Kim JS(1), Park JE(1), Lee KC(1), Choi SH(1), Oh BS(1), Yu SY(1), Eom MK(1), Kang
SW(1), Han KI(1), Suh MK(1), Lee DH(2), Yoon H(2), Kim BY(3), Yang SJ(3), Lee
JH(1), Lee JS(4)(1), Park SH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Korean Collection for Type Cultures, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience
and Biotechnology (KRIBB), 181 Ipsin-gil, Jeongeup-si, Jeollabuk-do 56212,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 82 Gumi-ro, 173 Beon-gil,
Bundang-Gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do 13620, Republic of Korea.
(3)ChunLab, Inc., 2477 Nambusunhwan-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul 06725, Republic of
Korea.
(4)University of Science and Technology (UST), 217 Gajeong-ro, Yuseong-gu,
Daejeon 34113, Republic of Korea.

An obligately anaerobic, Gram-stain-positive, non-motile and coccoid- or
oval-shaped bacterium, designated strain KGMB01111T, was isolated from faeces
from a healthy Korean. Comparative analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated 
that KGMB01111T was closely related to Ruminococcus gauveauii CCRI-16110T (93.9
%) and Blautia stercoris GAM6-1T (93.7 %), followed by Clostridium nexile DSM
1787T (93.5 %), Blautia producta ATCC 27340T (93.4 %), Blautia hydrogenotrophica 
DSM 10507T (93.1 %) and Blautia coccoides ATCC 29236T (93.1 %) within the family 
Lachnospiraceae (Clostridium rRNA cluster XIVa). Phylogenetic analysis based on
the 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that KGMB01111T formed a separate branch
with species in the genus Blautia. The major cellular fatty acids (>10.0 %) were 
C16 : 0 and C18 : 1 cis 9 dimethyl acetal (DMA), and the major polar lipids were 
aminophospholipids and lipids. KGMB01111T contained meso-diaminopimelic acid in
cell-wall peptidoglycan. The predominant end product of fermentation produced by 
KGMB01111T was acetic acid. Based on the whole-genome sequence, the DNA G+C
content of the isolate was 44.7 mol%. On the basis of the phenotypic,
chemotaxonomic and phylogenetic characteristics, KGMB01111T represents a novel
species within the genus Blautia for which the name Blautia faecicola sp. nov. is
proposed. The type strain is KGMB01111T (=KCTC 15706T=DSM 107827T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004015 
PMID: 32100703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

