
1. GE Port J Gastroenterol. 2020 Aug;27(5):336-351. doi: 10.1159/000505036. Epub
2020 Jan 14.

Gastrointestinal Microbiome - What We Need to Know in Clinical Practice.

Ortigão R(1), Pimentel-Nunes P(1)(2), Dinis-Ribeiro M(1)(2), Libânio D(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Portuguese Oncology Institute of Porto, Porto,
Portugal.
(2)MEDCIDS - Department of Community Medicine, Information and Decision in
Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.

Human gut microbiota plays an important role in individual health. When the
balance between host and gut microbiota is disrupted, changes in microbiota
composition and function occur, which is referred as dysbiosis. Environmental
factors as diet, proton pump inhibitors, and antibiotics can lead to a permanent 
dysbiotic disruption. Clarification of these imbalances was made possible by
recent advances in genome sequencing methods that supported acknowledgment of the
interplay between microbiome and intestinal and extraintestinal disorders. This
review focuses on the microbiota impact in inflammatory bowel disease, gastric
cancer, colorectal cancer, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), irritable
bowel syndrome (IBS), and Clostridium difficile infection (CDI). Furthermore,
novel therapies are summarized. Fecal microbiota transplant (FMT) is a successful
and established therapy in recurrent CDI, and its application in other
dysbiosis-related diseases is attracting enormous interest. Pre- and probiotics
target microbial rebalance and have positive effects mainly in NAFLD, ulcerative 
colitis, IBS, and CDI patients. Promising anticarcinogenic effects have also been
demonstrated in animal models. The literature increasingly describes microbial
changes in many dysbiotic disorders and shows what needs to be treated. However, 
probiotics and FMT application in clinical practice suffers from a shortage of
randomized controlled trials with standardized therapy regimens to support their 
recommendation.

Publisher: A microbiota gastrointestinal desempenha um papel essencial na saúde
humana.Quando surge um desequilibrio entre esta e o hospedeiro, ocorrem
alterações na composição e fundo da microbiota que se designa de dísbiose.
Fatores ambientais como a dieta, inibidores da bomba de protões e antibióticos
podem induzir um estado disbiótico permanente. O esclarecimento destas
desregulações foi possível graças a avanços recentes nos métodos de sequenciação 
genómica que, por sua vez, nos ajudaram a perceber a interação entre a microbiota
e distúrbios intestinais e extra-intestinais. Esta revisão foca-se no impacto da 
microbiota na Doença Inflamatória Intestinal, Cancros gástrico e colorretal,
Fígado Gordo Não-Alcoólico (FGNA), Síndroma do Intestino Irritável (SII) e
Infeção por Clostridium difficile (ICD). Além disso, resume-se no final as
estratégias terapéuticas que têm surgido. O transplante fecal é um tratamento com
eficácia estabelecida na infeção recorrente por C. difficile, reunindo um
crescente interesse na sua aplicado em outras doenças relacionadas com disbiose. 
Os pre- e probióticos promovem o reequilíbrio microbiano e têm evidência de
efeitos positivos sobretudo no FGNA, Colite Ulcerosa, Sll e ICD. Em modelos
animais, estes também demonstraram efeitos anti-carcinogénicos promissores. É
evidente na literatura uma descrido cada vez mais pormenorizada das alterações
microbianas em vários distúrbios disbióticos, oferecendo ferramentas que permitem
saber o que pode ser tratado. No entanto, a aplicado de probióticos e transplante
fecal na prática clínica sofre aínda de carência de ensaios clínicos
randomizados, com regimes terapêuticos standard, em número que permita a sua
recomendação formal.
Copyright © 2020 by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000505036 
PMCID: PMC7506249
PMID: 32999906 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to
declare.

