
1. Bioresour Technol. 2020 Sep 17;319:124140. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.124140.
[Epub ahead of print]

Sugarcane bagasse hydrolysates as feedstock to produce the
isopropanol-butanol-ethanol fuel mixture: Effect of lactic acid derived from
microbial contamination on Clostridium beijerinckii DSM 6423.

Vieira CFDS(1), Codogno MC(1), Maugeri Filho F(2), Maciel Filho R(1), Mariano
AP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Optimization, Design, and Advanced Control - Fermentation
Division (LOPCA-Ferm), School of Chemical Engineering, University of Campinas
(UNICAMP), Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(2)Bioprocess and Metabolic Engineering Laboratory (LEMeB), School of Food
Engineering, University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Optimization, Design, and Advanced Control - Fermentation
Division (LOPCA-Ferm), School of Chemical Engineering, University of Campinas
(UNICAMP), Campinas, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: adpm@unicamp.br.

Enzymatic hydrolysis of lignocellulose under industrial conditions is prone to
contamination by lactic acid bacteria, and in this study, a cellulose hydrolysate
produced from dilute-acid pretreatedsugarcane bagasse contained 13 g/L lactic
acid and was used for IBE production by Clostridium beijerinckii DSM 6423. In
fermentation of the cellulose hydrolysate supplemented with sugarcane molasses
for nutrients and buffering of the medium (40 g/L total sugar), 92% of the lactic
acid was consumed, and the butanol yield was as high as 0.28 (7.9 g/L butanol),
suggesting that lactic acid was preferentially metabolized to butanol. When the
hydrolysate was mixed with a detoxified bagasse hemicellulose hydrolysate and
supplemented with molasses (35 g/L total sugar), the culture was able to exhaust 
glucose and utilized sucrose (by 38%), xylose (31%), and lactic acid (70%).
Overall, this study shows that C. beijerinckii DSM 6423 can co-ferment first- and
second-generation sugars while consuming lactic acid.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.124140 
PMID: 32971332 

