
1. Infect Dis (Lond). 2020 Mar;52(3):196-201. doi: 10.1080/23744235.2019.1696472.
Epub 2019 Nov 28.

The antibiotic susceptibility pattern of gas gangrene-forming Clostridium spp.
clinical isolates from South-Eastern Hungary.

Sárvári KP(1), Schoblocher D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Microbiology, University of Szeged, Szeged, Hungary.

Introduction: Clostridium perfringens and other gas gangrene-forming clostridia
are commensals of the human gut and vaginal microbiota, but can cause serious or 
even fatal infections. As there are relatively few published studies on
antibiotic susceptibility of these bacteria, we decided to perform a 10-year
retrospective study in a South-Eastern Hungarian clinical centre.Methods: A total
of 372 gas gangrene-forming Clostridium spp. were isolated from clinically
relevant samples and identified with rapid ID 32A (bioMérieux, France) and
MALDI-TOF MS (Bruker Daltinics, Germany) methods. Antibiotic susceptibility was
determined with E-tests.Results: We identified 313 C. perfringens, 20 C.
septicum, 10 C. sordellii, 10 C. sporogenes, 9 C. tertium, 6 C. bifermentans, 4
C. histolyticum isolates. In C. perfringens isolates, the rate of penicillin
resistance was 2.6% and the rate of clindamycin resistance 3.8%. Penicillin
resistance was found in 6.8% and clindamycin resistance in 8.5% of the
non-perfringens Clostridium spp. isolates.Conclusion: The antibiotic
susceptibility of C. perfringens isolates was in good agreement with previous
publications. The rates of resistance to penicillin and clindamycin were very
low. The resistance rates of non-perfringens Clostridium spp. isolates were
higher than those of C. perfringens strains, but lower than those published in
the literature.

DOI: 10.1080/23744235.2019.1696472 
PMID: 31778089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

