
1. Foods. 2020 Sep 4;9(9). pii: E1238. doi: 10.3390/foods9091238.

Validation of an Analytical Method for Nitrite and Nitrate Determination in Meat 
Foods for Infants by Ion Chromatography with Conductivity Detection.

Coviello D(1), Pascale R(1), Ciriello R(1), Salvi AM(1), Guerrieri A(1), Contursi
M(1), Scrano L(2), Bufo SA(1)(3), Cataldi TRI(4), Bianco G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Science, University of Basilicata, Via dell'Ateneo Lucano, 10,
85100 Potenza, Italy.
(2)Department of European and Mediterranean Cultures: Architecture, Environment, 
Cultural Heritage, University of Basilicata, Via Lanera, 20, 75100 Matera, Italy.
(3)Department of Geography, Environmental Management and Energy Studies,
University of Johannesburg, P.O. Box 524, Auckland Park 2006, Johannesburg 2028, 
South Africa.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Bari, Via Orabona, 4, 70126 Bari,
Italy.

Nitrate and nitrite as sodium or potassium salts are usually added to meat
products to develop the characteristic flavor, to inhibit the growth of
microorganisms (particularly Clostridium botulinum), and effectively control
rancidity by inhibiting lipid oxidation. However, both nitrate and nitrite ions
need to be monitored for ensuring the quality and safety of cured meats. In this 
work, for the first time the content of nitrite and nitrate ions in homogenized
meat samples of baby foods was determined by a validated method based on ion
chromatography (IC) coupled with conductivity detection. Recoveries of nitrate
and nitrite ions in meat samples were not lower than 84 Â± 6%. The detection
limits of nitrate and nitrite were 0.08 mg L-1 and 0.13 mg L-1, respectively.
Five commercial samples of homogenized meat, namely lamb, rabbit, chicken, veal, 
and beef, for infant feeding were investigated; while nitrite content was below
the detection limit, nitrate ranged from 10.7 to 21.0 mg kg-1. The results
indicated that nitrate contents were below the European (EU) fixed value of 200
mg kg-1, and an acceptable daily intake of 3.7 mg kg-1 was estimated.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9091238 
PMID: 32899742 

