
1. Electrodiagnostic Evaluation Of Neuromuscular Junction Disorder.

Patel P, Pobre T(1).
In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2020-.
2020 Sep 10.

Author information: 
(1)Nassau University Medical Center

Neuromuscular junction disorders are a group of conditions that cause muscle
weakness. Their etiology can be autoimmune, congenital, metabolic, or toxic
mediated. The three most common neuromuscular junction disorders are Myasthenia
gravis (MG), Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS), and botulism. The primary 
pathology is impaired neurotransmission at the interface (synapse) between the
nerve ending and the skeletal muscle fiber. In Myasthenia gravis, pathology
occurs at the postsynaptic membrane.[1] In Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome and 
botulism, the presynaptic membrane is affected.[1][2] Neuromuscular Junction
disorders patients present with complaints of muscle fatigue and weakness that
fluctuate with episodes of worsening after activity. The sensory system is not
affected, as sensory nerves do not have a neuromuscular junction. Patients
present with proximal greater than distal muscle weakness. It is common to
receive complaints related to bulbar or extraocular muscle weakness as well.
Myasthenia gravis patients frequently present with bulbar weakness and limb
weakness. It is important to investigate if the patient has a history of
thymoma.[3]  LEMS patients less commonly present with bulbar weakness but have
diffuse proximal limb weakness. LEMS has a strong correlation with small cell
carcinoma.[4][5] Botulism is a rare condition caused by a toxin produced by
clostridium botulinum. In the United States majority of the cases are seen in
infants.[6] 

PMID: 32965973 

