
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 Aug 30;334:108853. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108853. [Epub ahead of print]

Influence of reduced levels or suppression of sodium nitrite on the outgrowth and
toxinogenesis of psychrotrophic Clostridium botulinum Group II type B in cooked
ham.

Lebrun S(1), Van Nieuwenhuysen T(2), Crèvecoeur S(3), Vanleyssem R(3), Thimister 
J(3), Denayer S(2), Jeuge S(4), Daube G(3), Clinquart A(3), Fremaux B(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of Liège, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, FARAH, Quartier Vallée 2,
Avenue de Cureghem 10 (B43b), 4000 Liège, Belgium. Electronic address:
sarah.lebrun@uliege.be.
(2)Sciensano, Rue Juliette Wytsman 14, 1050 Ixelles, Belgium.
(3)University of Liège, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, FARAH, Quartier Vallée 2,
Avenue de Cureghem 10 (B43b), 4000 Liège, Belgium.
(4)IFIP French Pork Research Institute, Avenue du Général de Gaulle, 7, 94704
Maisons-Alfort, France.

Outgrowth and toxinogenesis of Clostridium botulinum Group II (non-proteolytic)
type B were studied in cooked ham prepared with different NaNO2 (ranging from 0
to 80 mg/kg) and sodium chloride (NaCl, ranging from 12 to 19 g/kg) incorporation
rates. Cured ground pork batters were inoculated with a cocktail of 3 strains of 
C. botulinum Group II type B at 3.5 log10 CFU/g, portioned and samples of 50 g
were vacuum packed then cooked and cooled based on thermal processing employed by
the meat processing industry. These cooked ham model samples were stored under
reasonably foreseeable conditions of use and storage i.e. for 14 days at 4 °C,
followed by a cold chain break for 1 h at 20 °C then up to 33 days at 8 °C.
Storage times and temperatures were used to mimic those commonly encountered
along the supply chain. Enumeration of C. botulinum and detection of the
botulinum neurotoxin type B (BoNT/B) were performed in triplicate at different
storage times. Under these experimental conditions, incorporation rates of
NaNO2 ≥ 30 mg/kg prevented the outgrowth and toxinogenesis of C. botulinum Group 
II type B in the cooked ham model, regardless of the NaCl concentrations tested. 
In contrast, total removal of nitrite allowed outgrowth and toxin production
during storage of the processed meat product. Results showed that the maximum
ingoing amount of nitrite (i.e. 150 mg/kg) that may be added according to the EU 
legislation (Regulation (EC) No 1333/2008) can be reduced in cooked ham while
still ensuring control of C. botulinum Group II type B. According to the multiple
factors that could affect C. botulinum behavior in processing meat products,
outgrowth and toxin production of C. botulinum should be evaluated on a case by
case basis, depending on the recipe, manufacturing process, food matrix and
storage conditions.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108853 
PMID: 32932195 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

