
1. Bioresour Technol. 2020 Feb 21;305:123066. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123066.
[Epub ahead of print]

Developing Clostridium diolis as a biorefinery chassis by genetic manipulation.

Li A(1), Wen Z(1), Fang D(1), Lu M(1), Ma Y(1), Xie Q(1), Jin M(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Environmental and Biological Engineering, Nanjing University of
Science & Technology, Nanjing 210094, China.
(2)School of Environmental and Biological Engineering, Nanjing University of
Science & Technology, Nanjing 210094, China. Electronic address:
jinmingjie@njust.edu.cn.

Clostridium diolis can efficiently utilize various inexpensive, renewable
resources such as crude glycerol and lignocellulosic biomass hydrolysate to
produce bulk chemicals and fuels. However, its study has been impeded by the lack
of efficient plasmids electro-transformation techniques. In this study, an
efficient electroporation protocol for C. diolis was developed and two replicons 
functional in C. diolis were identified. After optimizing parameters, the
electro-transformation efficiency was enhanced from 5 to 692 transformants/ug
DNA. Moreover, metabolic engineering of C. diolis was performed as proof of
concept for the first time. By simply overexpressing heterologous genes based on 
the replicable plasmids, the strain was engineered to improve productions of diol
(1,3-propanediol) and n-alcohol (butanol), and to enable butyl acetate synthesis 
in vivo, respectively under different culture conditions. This work represented a
milestone of breeding C. diolis using metabolic engineering, and paved the way
for studying C. diolis on the molecular level.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123066 
PMID: 32114307 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

