
1. Gut Microbes. 2020 Jul 3;11(4):930-943. doi: 10.1080/19490976.2020.1722054. Epub 
2020 Feb 20.

Probiotics maintain the intestinal microbiome homeostasis of the sailors during a
long sea voyage.

Zhang J(1)(2), Zhao J(3), Jin H(1), Lv R(1), Shi H(4), De G(4), Yang B(4), Sun
Z(1), Zhang H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Ministry of Education
P. R. C., Key Laboratory of Dairy Products Processing, Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Affairs P. R. C., Inner Mongolia Agricultural University , Hohhot, P.
R. China.
(2)College of Food Science and Engineering, Hainan University , Haikou, P. R.
China.
(3)College of Animal Science, Qingdao Agricultural University , Qingdao, P. R.
China.
(4)Department of General Surgery, 971 Hospital , Qingdao, P. R. China.

The challenging conditions encountered during long sea voyages increase the risk 
of health-threatening physiological and psychological stress for sailors compared
with land-based workers. However, how the intestinal microbiota responds to a
long sea voyage and whether there is a feasible approach for protecting gut
health during sea voyage are still unexplored. Here, we designed a 30-d
longitudinal study including a placebo group (n = 42) and a probiotic group (n = 
40) and used shotgun metagenomic sequencing to explore the impacts of sea voyage 
on the intestinal microbiome of sailors. By comparing the intestinal microbiome
of subjects in the placebo group at baseline (d 0) and at the end of the sea
voyage (d 30), we observed an alteration in the intestinal microbiome during the 
long sea voyage based on the microbial structure; the results revealed an
increase in the species Streptococcus gordonii and Klebsiella pneumoniae as well 
as a decrease in some functional features. However, the change in the microbial
structure of sailors in the probiotic group between d 0 and d 30 was limited,
which indicated a maintenance effect of probiotics on intestinal microbiome
homeostasis. At the metagenomic strain level, a generally positive correlation
was observed between probiotics and the strains belonging to Bifidobacterium
longum and Bifidobacterium animalis, whereas a common negative correlation was
observed between probiotics and Clostridium leptum; this result revealed the
potential mechanism of maintaining intestinal microbiome homeostasis by
probiotics. The present study provided a feasible approach for protecting gut
health during a long sea voyage.

DOI: 10.1080/19490976.2020.1722054 
PMID: 32079472 

