
1. J Infect Chemother. 2019 Nov;25(11):906-908. doi: 10.1016/j.jiac.2019.04.009.
Epub 2019 May 14.

Bacteremia due to high-level daptomycin-resistant Corynebacterium striatum: A
case report with genetic investigation.

Hagiya H(1), Kimura K(2), Okuno H(3), Hamaguchi S(3), Morii D(3), Yoshida H(3),
Mitsui T(2), Nishi I(2), Tomono K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infection Control and Prevention, Osaka University Hospital,
Japan. Electronic address: highgear@hp-infect.med.osaka-u.ac.jp.
(2)Laboratory for Clinical Investigation, Osaka University Hospital, Japan.
(3)Division of Infection Control and Prevention, Osaka University Hospital,
Japan.

Corynebacterium striatum, generally considered an opportunistic organism in
humans, has recently been known to develop high-level daptomycin resistance
(HLDR) shortly after drug exposure. To date, however, only several such clinical 
isolates have been described in the literature and clinical background of the
resistant pathogen remains to be elucidated. Here, we report a case involving a
C. striatum strain with HLDR harboring novel nucleotide mutations, together with 
a review of the relevant literature. To the best of our knowledge, this is the
first well-investigated clinical report from Japan including a genetic
investigation. Considering the rapid emergence of HLDR C. striatum in vitro
experiment, there could be a number of underreporting cases. Scrupulous attention
is required when administering daptomycin for the treatment of C. striatum
infections, even if the organism has initially exhibited susceptibility.

Copyright © 2019 Japanese Society of Chemotherapy and The Japanese Association
for Infectious Diseases. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jiac.2019.04.009 
PMID: 31101531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

