
1. mSphere. 2019 Nov 27;4(6). pii: e00532-19. doi: 10.1128/mSphere.00532-19.

Anterior Nares Diversity and Pathobionts Represent Sinus Microbiome in Chronic
Rhinosinusitis.

De Boeck I(#)(1), Wittouck S(#)(1), Martens K(#)(1)(2), Claes J(3), Jorissen
M(4), Steelant B(2), van den Broek MFL(1), Seys SF(2), Hellings PW(#)(2)(4),
Vanderveken OM(#)(5)(3), Lebeer S(#)(6).

Author information: 
(1)University of Antwerp, Department of Bioscience Engineering, Antwerp, Belgium.
(2)KU Leuven, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Research Group Allergy
and Clinical Immunology, Leuven, Belgium.
(3)Antwerp University Hospital, ENT, Head and Neck Surgery, Edegem, Belgium.
(4)Clinical Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, University 
Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(5)University of Antwerp, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Translational 
Neurosciences, Antwerp, Belgium.
(6)University of Antwerp, Department of Bioscience Engineering, Antwerp, Belgium 
sarah.lebeer@uantwerpen.be.
(#)Contributed equally

It is generally believed that the microbiome plays a role in the pathophysiology 
of chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS), though its exact contribution to disease
development and severity remains unclear. Here, samples were collected from the
anterior nares, nasopharynx, and maxillary and ethmoid sinuses of 190 CRS
patients and from the anterior nares and nasopharynx of 100 controls. Microbial
communities were analyzed by Illumina sequencing of the V4 region of 16S rRNA.
The phenotype and patient characteristics were documented, and several serum
inflammatory markers were measured. Our data indicate a rather strong continuity 
for the microbiome in the different upper respiratory tract (URT) niches in CRS
patients, with the microbiome in the anterior nares being most similar to the
sinus microbiome. Bacterial diversity was reduced in CRS patients without nasal
polyps compared to that in the controls but not in CRS patients with nasal
polyps. Statistically significant differences in the presence/absence or relative
abundance of several taxa were found between the CRS patients and the healthy
controls. Of these, Dolosigranulum pigrum was clearly more associated with URT
samples from healthy subjects, while the Corynebacterium tuberculostearicum,
Haemophilus influenzae/H. aegyptius, and Staphylococcus taxa were found to be
potential pathobionts in CRS patients. However, CRS versus health as a predictor 
explained only 1 to 2% of the variance in the microbiome profiles in an adonis
model. A history of functional endoscopic sinus surgery, age, and sex also showed
a minor association. This study thus indicates that functional studies on the
potential beneficial versus pathogenic activity of the different indicator taxa
found here are needed to further understand the pathology of CRS and its
different phenotypes. (This study has been registered at ClinicalTrials.gov under
identifier NCT02933983.)IMPORTANCE There is a clear need to better understand the
pathology and specific microbiome features in chronic rhinosinusitis patients,
but little is known about the bacterial topography and continuity between the
different niches of the upper respiratory tract. Our work showed that the
anterior nares could be an important reservoir for potential sinus pathobionts.
This has implications for the diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of CRS. In
addition, we found a potential pathogenic role for the Corynebacterium
tuberculostearicum, Haemophilus influenzae/H. aegyptius, and Staphylococcus taxa 
and a potential beneficial role for Dolosigranulum Finally, a decreased
microbiome diversity was observed in patients with chronic rhinosinusitis without
nasal polyps compared to that in healthy controls but not in chronic
rhinosinusitis patients with nasal polyps. This suggests a potential role for the
microbiome in disease development or progression of mainly this phenotype.

Copyright Â© 2019 De Boeck et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSphere.00532-19 
PMCID: PMC6881717
PMID: 31776238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

