
1. Indian J Microbiol. 2019 Dec;59(4):422-427. doi: 10.1007/s12088-019-00816-y. Epub
2019 Jul 10.

Characterization of Skin Microbiome in Tinea Pedis.

Liu X(1), Tan J(1), Yang H(1), Gao Z(1), Cai Q(1), Meng L(1), Yang L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mycology, Shanghai Dermatology Hospital, Shanghai, 200443
People's Republic of China.

Tinea pedis has been associated with Trichophyton rubrum infection. However, it's
not clear whether other microbes were implicated in disease pathogenesis. The
composition of microbial communities of patients with tinea pedis and healthy
controls were analyzed to identify the characteristics of tinea pedis and
differences associated with clinical patterns. We found that microbial community 
structures were different in patients with tinea pedis compared with healthy
controls. Moreover, skin microbiome varied in different forms of tinea pedis.
Healthy controls exhibited greater fungal diversity than patients with tinea
pedis. In patients with tinea pedis, the dominant bacterial and fungal genera
were Staphylococcus and Trichophyton. Compared with healthy controls,
Corynebacterium tuberculostearicum was decreased and T. rubrum was increased. C. 
tuberculostearicum was more abundant in vesicular tinea pedis than in
hyperkeratotic and interdigital tinea pedis. Interdigital tinea pedis had a
higher detection rate of Corynebacterium minutissimum and T. rubrum than the
other forms. These results indicated that bacterial microbes may take part in
the development of tinea pedis.

© Association of Microbiologists of India 2019.

DOI: 10.1007/s12088-019-00816-y 
PMCID: PMC6842383 [Available on 2020-12-01]
PMID: 31762504 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that they
have no conflict of interest.

