
1. Pol J Microbiol. 2019 Dec;68(4):457-464. doi: 10.33073/pjm-2019-045. Epub 2019
Oct 31.

Cytokine Levels in the In Vitro Response of T Cells to Planktonic and Biofilm
Corynebacterium amycolatum.

Olender A(1), Bogut A(1), Magryś A(1), Tabarkiewicz J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Chair and Department of Medical Microbiology, Medical University of Lublin ,
Lublin , Poland.
(2)Department of Human Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Rzeszów ,
Rzeszów , Poland.

Unravelling of the interplay between the immune system and non-diphtheria
corynebacteria would contribute to understanding their increasing role as
medically important microorganisms. We aimed at the analysis of pro- (TNF, IL-1β,
IL-6, IL-8, and IL-12p70) and anti-inflammatory (IL-10) cytokines produced by
Jurkat T cells in response to planktonic and biofilm Corynebacterium amycolatum. 
Two reference strains: C. amycolatum ATCC 700207 (R-CA), Staphylococcus aureus
ATCC 25923 (R-SA), and ten clinical strains of C. amycolatum (C-CA) were used in 
the study. Jurkat T cells were stimulated in vitro by the planktonic-conditioned 
medium (PCM) and biofilm-conditioned medium (BCM) derived from the relevant
cultures of the strains tested. The cytokine concentrations were determined in
the cell culture supernatants using the flow cytometry. The levels of the
cytokines analyzed were lower after stimulation with the BCM when compared to the
PCM derived from the cultures of C-CA; statistical significance (p < 0.05) was
observed for IL-1β, IL-12 p70, and IL-10. Similarly, planktonic R-CA and R-SA
stimulated a higher cytokine production than their biofilm counterparts. The
highest levels of pro-inflammatory IL-8, IL-1β, and IL-12p70 were observed after 
stimulation with planktonic R-SA whereas the strongest stimulation of
anti-inflammatory IL-10 was noted for the BCM derived from the mixed culture of
both reference species. Our results are indicative of weaker immunostimulatory
properties of the biofilm C. amycolatum compared to its planktonic form. It may
play a role in the persistence of biofilm-related infections. The extent of the
cytokine response can be dependent on the inherent virulence of the infecting
microorganism.Unravelling of the interplay between the immune system and
non-diphtheria corynebacteria would contribute to understanding their increasing 
role as medically important microorganisms. We aimed at the analysis of pro-
(TNF, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, and IL-12p70) and anti-inflammatory (IL-10) cytokines
produced by Jurkat T cells in response to planktonic and biofilm Corynebacterium 
amycolatum. Two reference strains: C. amycolatum ATCC 700207 (R-CA),
Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923 (R-SA), and ten clinical strains of C.
amycolatum (C-CA) were used in the study. Jurkat T cells were stimulated in vitro
by the planktonic-conditioned medium (PCM) and biofilm-conditioned medium (BCM)
derived from the relevant cultures of the strains tested. The cytokine
concentrations were determined in the cell culture supernatants using the flow
cytometry. The levels of the cytokines analyzed were lower after stimulation with
the BCM when compared to the PCM derived from the cultures of C-CA; statistical
significance (p < 0.05) was observed for IL-1β, IL-12 p70, and IL-10. Similarly, 
planktonic R-CA and R-SA stimulated a higher cytokine production than their
biofilm counterparts. The highest levels of pro-inflammatory IL-8, IL-1β, and
IL-12p70 were observed after stimulation with planktonic R-SA whereas the
strongest stimulation of anti-inflammatory IL-10 was noted for the BCM derived
from the mixed culture of both reference species. Our results are indicative of
weaker immunostimulatory properties of the biofilm C. amycolatum compared to its 
planktonic form. It may play a role in the persistence of biofilm-related
infections. The extent of the cytokine response can be dependent on the inherent 
virulence of the infecting microorganism.

DOI: 10.33073/pjm-2019-045 
PMCID: PMC7260632
PMID: 31880890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

