
1. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 Sep;39(9):1745-1752. doi:
10.1007/s10096-020-03891-y. Epub 2020 May 4.

Infection and colonization by Corynebacterium pseudodiphtheriticum: a 9-year
observational study in a university central hospital.

Valdoleiros SR(1), Sousa Neves C(2), Abranches Carvalho J(3), Gonçalves C(4),
Pereira P(2), Vasconcelos O(4), Castro AP(2), Ramos MH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Centro Hospitalar Universitário do Porto,
Largo Prof. Abel Salazar, 4099-001, Porto, Portugal.
sofia.valdoleiros@chporto.min-saude.pt.
(2)Division of Microbiology, Department of Pathology, Centro Hospitalar
Universitário do Porto, Largo Prof. Abel Salazar, 4099-001, Porto, Portugal.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Centro Hospitalar de Entre o Douro e Vouga,
R. Dr. Cândido Pinho 5, 4520-211, Santa Maria da Feira, Portugal.
(4)Department of Infectious Diseases, Centro Hospitalar Universitário do Porto,
Largo Prof. Abel Salazar, 4099-001, Porto, Portugal.

Despite constituting part of the human commensal flora, Corynebacterium
pseudodiphtheriticum has been recognized as a potentially infectious agent, most 
frequently in immunocompromised patients or individuals with other morbidity
factors, but significant association to comorbid states remains unproven. This
study's purpose was to assess clinical significance, risk factors for infection
and antimicrobial susceptibility of C. pseudodiphtheriticum isolates. A
retrospective observational study was conducted. Relevance of isolation was
determined by clinical, laboratory, and imaging criteria. Forty-nine isolates
occurred in 47 episodes. Colonization was assumed in 12% and infection in 78%, of
which 51% were nosocomial. Patients with infection were older, with male
predominance; both age and gender were statistically significant (p < 0.05)
between infection and colonization groups. Although dyslipidemia (58%), arterial 
hypertension (58%), invasive procedures (56%), and chronic lung disease (50%)
were prevalent in the infection group, no comorbidity was a significant risk
factor for infection compared with colonization. Charlson comorbidity index
showed no statistically difference between groups. Mortality rate was 14% in
infection. Respiratory samples were the main isolation product; all tested
strains were susceptible to amoxicillin/clavulanate and vancomycin. Resistant
strains were observed for clindamycin (77%) and erythromycin (48%). C.
pseudodiphtheriticum isolation was associated with infection in most cases.
Despite the high prevalence of comorbidities and invasive procedures, no factors 
other than age and gender were significantly associated with infection. Although 
C. pseudodiphtheriticum may constitute a contaminant or colonizer in clinical
samples, positive cultures in patients with signs and symptoms consistent with
infection should not be neglected.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-020-03891-y 
PMID: 32367215 

