
1. BMC Infect Dis. 2020 Jun 1;20(1):389. doi: 10.1186/s12879-020-05114-3.

Corynebacterium striatum meningitis combined with suspected brain and lung
abscesses: a case report and review.

Zhang MJ(1), Cao XJ(1), Fan J(1), Yin ZG(1), Yu K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, The General Hospital of Western Theater Command,
No.270 Rongdu Avenue, Jinniu District, Chengdu, 610083, Sichuan Province,
People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The General Hospital of Western Theater Command,
No.270 Rongdu Avenue, Jinniu District, Chengdu, 610083, Sichuan Province,
People's Republic of China. yuke909@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Intracranial infections with Corynebacterium striatum (C. striatum)
have been described sporadically in the literature over the last two decades.
However, C. striatum meningitis combined with multiple abscesses has not been
published before.
CASE PRESENTATION: In this report, we describe the clinical and imaging findings 
in a 54-year-old woman with meningitis caused by C. striatum and combined with
suspected brain and lung abscesses. This patient who underwent multiple fractures
and a recent cut presented with headache and paraphasia. C. striatum was isolated
in cerebrospinal fluid and supposedly transmitted from the skin purulent wound
through blood. The patient was treated with intravenous vancomycin and had a
transient improvement, but died finally. Multiple abscesses, especially in the
brain, could be a reason to explain her conditions were deteriorating rapidly.
CONCLUSIONS: Note that C. striatum can cause life-threatening infections. Early
identification and diagnosis, early administration of antibiotics to which the
bacterium is susceptible, and treatment of complications will be beneficial in
patients with C. striatum-related infection.

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-020-05114-3 
PMCID: PMC7268293
PMID: 32487026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

