
1. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2020 May 20;11:272. doi: 10.3389/fendo.2020.00272.
eCollection 2020.

Characteristics of the Urinary Microbiome From Patients With Gout: A Prospective 
Study.

Ning Y(1)(2), Yang G(1), Chen Y(3), Zhao X(1), Qian H(3), Liu Y(3), Chen S(3),
Shi G(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.
(2)Department of Intensive Care Unit, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xiamen
University, Xiamen, China.
(3)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, The First Affiliated
Hospital of Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.

The role of host microbes in the pathogenesis of several diseases has been
established, and altered microbiomes have been related to diseases. However, the 
variability of the urinary microbiome in individuals with gout has not been
evaluated to date. Therefore, we conducted the present prospective study to
characterize the urinary microbiome and its potential relation to gout. Urine
samples from 30 patients with gout and 30 healthy controls were analyzed by
Illumina MiSeq sequencing of the 16S rRNA hypervariable regions, and the
microbiomes were compared according to alpha-diversity indices, complexity (beta 
diversity) with principal component analysis, and composition with linear
discriminant analysis effect size. The most significantly different taxa at the
phylum and genus levels were identified, and their potential as biomarkers for
discriminating gout patients was assessed based on receiver operating
characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Compared with the healthy controls, there
was a dramatic decrease in microbial richness and diversity in the urine of gout 
patients. The phylum Firmicutes and its derivatives (Lactobacillus_iners,
Family_XI, and Finegoldia), the phylum Actinobacteria and its derivatives
(unidentified_Actinobacteria, Corynebacteriales, Corynebacteriale,
Corynebacterium_1, and Corynebacterium_tuberculostearicum), and the genera
Prevotella and Corynebacterium_1 were significantly enriched in the urine of gout
patients. ROC analysis indicated that the top five altered microbial genera could
be reliable markers for distinguishing gout patients from healthy individuals.
These findings demonstrate that there are specific alterations in the microbial
diversity of gout patients. Thus, further studies on the causal relationship
between gout and the urinary microbiome will offer new prospects for diagnosing, 
preventing, and treating gout.

Copyright Â© 2020 Ning, Yang, Chen, Zhao, Qian, Liu, Chen and Shi.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2020.00272 
PMCID: PMC7251145
PMID: 32508748 

