
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Mar 25;8(4). pii: E463. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8040463.

Preliminary in Vitro Studies on Corynebacterium urealyticum Pathogenetic
Mechanisms, a Possible Candidate for Chronic Idiopathic Prostatitis?

Nicolosi D(1), Genovese C(1), Cutuli MA(2), D'Angeli F(1), Pietrangelo L(2),
Davinelli S(2), Petronio GP(2), Marco RD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical and Biotechnological Sciences-Microbiology Section,
Università degli Studi di Catania, 95100 Catania, Italy.
(2)Department of Medicine and Health Sciences "Vincenzo Tiberio", Università
degli Studi del Molise-III Ed Polifunzionale, 86100 Campobasso, Italy.

Corynebacterium urealyticum is a well-known opportunistic uropathogen that can
occur with cystitis, pyelonephritis, and urinary sepsis. Although a wide variety 
of coryneform bacteria have been found from the male genital tract of prostatitis
patients, only one clinical case of prostatitis caused by C. urealyticum has been
reported. The aim of this study was to evaluate the in vitro tropism of C.
urealyticum towards LNCaP (lymph node carcinoma of the prostate) human cells line
and the influence of acetohydroxamic acid as an irreversible urease inhibitor on 
different aspects of its pathogenicity by means of several in vitro tests, such
as the determination and analysis of growth curves, MTT
(3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) assay, the
production of biofilms, and adhesion to LNCaP and HeLa cell lines. Results have
brought new pieces of evidence on the in vitro tropism of C. urealyticum for the 
human prostate cell line LNCaP and the therapeutic use of the irreversible urease
inhibitors such as acetohydroxamic acid (AHA), not only as enzyme blockers to
facilitate the removal of encrustations but also as modulators of some pathogenic
mechanisms. These interesting preliminary data allow us to assert that there is a
real possibility that C. urealyticum is a new candidate for chronic idiopathic
prostatitis.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8040463 
PMCID: PMC7232468
PMID: 32218312 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

