
1. Case Rep Orthop. 2020 Mar 5;2020:1392182. doi: 10.1155/2020/1392182. eCollection 
2020.

Chronic Corynebacterium striatum Septic Arthritis in a Patient Referred for Total
Knee Arthroplasty.

Hollnagel K(1), Willen J(1), Ellis M(2), Soleimanifard Y(3), Booth R(3), Nandi
S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The University of Toledo Medical Center,
USA.
(2)Department of Infectious Disease, The University of Toledo Medical Center,
USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, The University of Toledo Medical Center, USA.
(4)Department of Orthopaedics, University of Maryland School of Medicine, USA.

Background: While Corynebacterium striatum and other Corynebacterium species were
historically considered contaminants, they are recently being identified as
pathogens with increasing frequency. Case Summary. We report the case of a
78-year-old gentleman with a three-year history of knee pain and established
diagnosis of osteoarthritis referred for consideration for total knee
arthroplasty. He had no knee pain with passive range-of-motion. Plain films
demonstrated bony erosions atypical for osteoarthritis. Joint aspiration white
blood cell count was 30,548/mm3, but multiple cultures were positive for C.
striatum. The infection was successfully treated with open irrigation and
debridement, complete synovectomy, and six weeks of intravenous daptomycin.
Conclusion: To our knowledge, this is the first report of chronic C. striatum
septic arthritis of a native joint and only the third case of C. striatum septic 
arthritis of the knee.C. striatum. The infection was successfully treated with
open irrigation and debridement, complete synovectomy, and six weeks of
intravenous daptomycin. C. striatum. The infection was successfully treated with 
open irrigation and debridement, complete synovectomy, and six weeks of
intravenous daptomycin.

Copyright Â© 2020 Katharine Hollnagel et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/1392182 
PMCID: PMC7077040
PMID: 32206362 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest.

