
1. J Investig Med High Impact Case Rep. 2020 Jan-Dec;8:2324709620930930. doi:
10.1177/2324709620930930.

An Unusual Case (Metastatic-Like Lesion) of Septic Cerebral Embolus Caused by
Corynebacterium mucifaciens in a Diabetic Patient.

Senaobar Tahaei SA(1), Mencser Z(1), Reisz Z(1), Barzo P(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Szeged, Szeged, Hungary.

Septic cerebral emboli can be a challenging diagnosis to give, especially if
atypical bacterial infections are the cause of it. Correct diagnosis of this
condition can change the management route of the patient and result in a
nonsurgical treatment. To our best knowledge, this is the first case of septic
cerebral embolus caused by Corynebacterium mucifaciens reported. In this study, a
65-year-old diabetic patient who have developed ketoacidosis and went into coma
was investigated for a case of septic cerebral embolization. The patient
developed a sudden right-sided hemiparesis, and the radiological findings showed 
a tumor-like lesion on the left hemisphere at the level of the internal capsule. 
At first glance, presence of a metastatic tumor could not be excluded; therefore,
further laboratory tests and examinations were done to rule out metastatic
lesions. The blood culture of the patient revealed a case of bacteremia caused by
Corynebacterium mucifaciens and then a septic cerebral embolus was suspected, but
due to the rarity of this pathogen causing such complications as well as the
similarity of the lesion to a metastatic brain tumor, a biopsy was performed and 
the histopathological findings confirmed the diagnosis of a septic cerebral
embolus. Corynebacterium mucifaciens should be considered a human pathogen in
immunocompromised patients and it can cause cerebral septic embolization.
Metastatic brain tumors and tuberculomas should be excluded; if the uncertainty
of a metastatic tumor remains, biopsy can be performed and histological findings 
can amplify the diagnosis of septic cerebral embolus.

DOI: 10.1177/2324709620930930 
PMCID: PMC7273552
PMID: 32493177 

