
1. Molecules. 2020 May 21;25(10). pii: E2392. doi: 10.3390/molecules25102392.

Evaluation of Antioxidant and Antibacterial Activities, Cytotoxicity of Acacia
seyal Del Bark Extracts and Isolated Compounds.

Elmi A(1)(2), Spina R(1), Risler A(1), Philippot S(1), Mérito A(2), Duval RE(1), 
Abdoul-Latif FM(2), Laurain-Mattar D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Lorraine, CNRS, L2CM, F-54000 Nancy, France.
(2)Medicinal Research Institute, Centre d'Etudes et de Recherche de Djibouti,
IRM-CERD, Route de l'Aéroport, Haramous B.P. 486, Djibouti.

Water extract of Acacia seyal bark is used traditionally by the population in
Djibouti for its anti-infectious activity. The evaluation of in vitro
antibacterial, antioxidant activities and cytotoxicity as well as chemical
characterization of Acacia seyal bark water and methanolic extracts were
presented. The water extract has a toxicity against the MRC-5 cells at 256 μg/mL 
while the methanolic extract has a weak toxicity at the same concentration. The
methanolic extract has a strong antioxidant activity with half maximal inhibitory
concentration (IC50) of 150 ± 2.2 μg/mL using 1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) 
and IC50 of 27 ± 1.3 μg/mL using 2,2'-azino-bis 3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulphonic
acid (ABTS) radical methods. For ferric reducing/antioxidant power (FRAP) assay, 
the result is 45.74 ± 5.96 μg Vitamin C Equivalent (VCE)/g of dry weight (DW).
The precipitation of tannins from methanol crude extract decreases the MIC from
64 µg/mL to 32 µg/mL against Staphylococcus aureus and Corynebacterium
urealyticum. However, the antioxidant activity is higher before tannins
precipitation than after (IC50 = 150 µg/mL for methanolic crude extract and 250
µg/mL after tannins precipitation determined by DPPH method). By matrix-assisted 
laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS)
analysis, the results showed that the condensed tannins consist of two types of
catechin and gallocatechin-based oligomers. The fractionation led to the
identification of three pure compounds: two flavanols catechin and epicatechin;
one triterpene as lupeol; and a mixture of three steroids and one fatty acid:
campesterol, stigmasterol, clionasterol, and oleamide.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25102392 
PMCID: PMC7288156
PMID: 32455580 

