
1. J Clin Aesthet Dermatol. 2020 Mar;13(3):12-14. Epub 2020 Mar 1.

High Prevalence of Erythrasma in Patients with Inverse Psoriasis: A
Cross-sectional Study.

Janeczek M(1)(2), Kozel Z(1)(2), Bhasin R(1)(2), Tao J(1)(2), Eilers D(1)(2),
Swan J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Drs. Janeczek, Kozel, Tao, Eilers, and Swan are with the Hines VA Hospital in 
Hines, Illinois and the Division of Dermatology at Loyola University Chicago in
Maywood, Illinois.
(2)Ms. Bhasin is with the Stritch School of Medicine at Loyola University of
Chicago in Maywood, Illinois.

BACKGROUND: Inverse psoriasis is characterized by erythematous nonscaly plaques
in intertriginous regions. Similarly, erythrasma, a superficial infection caused 
by Corynebacterium minutissimum (C. minutissimum), is also found in skin folds
with red-brown lesions, making the distinction between psoriasis and erythrasma
difficult. No studies have previously determined whether these two clinically
similar cutaneous disorders can occur concurrently. METHODS: Thirty patients with
inverse psoriatic plaques were examined using a standard Wood's lamp to visualize
porphyrins associated with C. minutissimum. RESULTS: Just over half (56.6%) of
patients with inverse psoriatic plaques showed evidence of this bacterium.
Specifically, 45.5 percent of inverse psoriatic lesions were found to be positive
for C. minutissimum, with the highest prevalence of erythrasma located in the
gluteal cleft. CONCLUSION: Clinical suspicion for C. minutissimum should be high 
in patients with inverse psoriasis due to the organism's potential to trigger or 
exacerbate psoriatic lesions. Further studies are indicated to determine the
response to treatment in patients with this combination.

Copyright Â© 2020. Matrix Medical Communications. All rights reserved.


PMCID: PMC7159311
PMID: 32308789 

Conflict of interest statement: FUNDING:No funding was provided for this study.
DISCLOSURES:The authors have no conflicts of interest relevant to the content of 
this article.

