
1. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 Jan;39(1):113-119. doi:
10.1007/s10096-019-03698-6. Epub 2019 Sep 4.

From contamination to infective endocarditis-a population-based retrospective
study of Corynebacterium isolated from blood cultures.

Rasmussen M(1)(2)(3), Mohlin AW(4), Nilson B(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Section for Infection Medicine, Department of Sciences Lund, Lund University, 
Lund, Sweden. magnus.rasmussen@med.lu.se.
(2)Division for Infectious Diseases, Skåne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.
magnus.rasmussen@med.lu.se.
(3)Division of Infection Medicine Diseases, Department of Clinical Sciences Lund,
Lund University, BMC B14, SE-223 63, Lund, Sweden. magnus.rasmussen@med.lu.se.
(4)Section for Infection Medicine, Department of Sciences Lund, Lund University, 
Lund, Sweden.
(5)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Labmedicin, Region Skåne, Lund, Sweden.
(6)Division of Medical Microbiology, Department of Laboratory Medicine Lund, Lund
University, Lund, Sweden.

Corynebacterium is a genus that can contaminate blood cultures and also cause
severe infections like infective endocarditis (IE). Our purpose was to
investigate microbiological and clinical features associated with contamination
and true infection. A retrospective population-based study of Corynebacterium
bacteremia 2012-2017 in southern Sweden was performed. Corynebacterium isolates
were species determined using a matrix-assisted laser
desorption/ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). Patient
were, from the medical records, classified as having true infection or
contamination caused by Corynebacterium through a scheme considering both
bacteriological and clinical features and the groups were compared. Three hundred
thirty-nine episodes of bacteremia with Corynebacterium were identified in 335
patients of which 30 (8.8%) episodes were classified as true infection. Thirteen 
patients with true bacteremia had only one positive blood culture. Infections
were typically community acquired and affected mostly older males with
comorbidities. The focus of infection was most often unknown, and in-hospital
mortality was around 10% in both the groups with true infection and
contamination. Corynebacterium jeikeium and Corynebacterium striatum were
significantly overrepresented in the group with true infection, whereas
Corynebacterium afermentans was significantly more common in the contamination
group. Eight episodes of IE were identified, all of which in patients with heart 
valve prosthesis. Six of the IE cases affected the aortic valve and six of seven 
patients were male. The species of Corynebacterium in blood cultures can help to 
determine if a finding represent true infection or contamination. The finding of 
a single blood culture with Corynebacterium does not exclude true infection such 
as IE.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-019-03698-6 
PMCID: PMC6962118
PMID: 31485919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

