
1. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2020 May;34(5):1043-1049. doi: 10.1111/jdv.16069.
Epub 2019 Dec 5.

Corynebacterium kroppenstedtii subsp. demodicis is the endobacterium of Demodex
folliculorum.

Clanner-Engelshofen BM(1), French LE(1), Reinholz M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy, University Hospital, LMU Munich,
Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Demodex spp. mites are the most complex member of the human skin
microbiome. Mostly they are commensals, although their pathophysiological role in
inflammatory dermatoses is recognized. Demodex mites cannot be cultivated
in vitro, so only little is known about their life cycle, biology and physiology.
Different bacterial species have been suggested to be the endobacterium of
Demodex mites, including Bacillus oleronius, B. simplex, B. cereus and
B. pumilus.
OBJECTIVES: Our aim was to find the true endobacterium of human Demodex mites.
METHODS: The distinct genetic and phenotypic differences and similarities between
the type strain and native isolates are described by DNA sequencing, PCR,
MALDI-TOF, DNA-DNA hybridization, fatty and mycolic acid analyses, and antibiotic
resistance testing.
RESULTS: We report the true endobacterium of Demodex folliculorum, independent of
the sampling source of mites or life stage: Corynebacterium kroppenstedtii subsp.
demodicis.
CONCLUSIONS: We anticipate our finding to be a starting point for more in-depth
understanding of the tripartite microbe-host interaction between Demodex mites,
its bacterial endosymbiont and the human host.

© 2019 The Authors. Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and
Venereology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Academy of
Dermatology and Venereology.

DOI: 10.1111/jdv.16069 
PMID: 31713895 

