
1. Pathogens. 2020 Feb 19;9(2). pii: E136. doi: 10.3390/pathogens9020136.

Antimicrobial Resistance and Molecular Epidemiology of Corynebacterium striatum
Isolated in a Tertiary Hospital in Turkey.

Asgin N(1), Otlu B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Karabuk
University,78100 Karabuk, Turkey.
(2)Department of Medical Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Inonu
University,44280 Malatya, Turkey.

Although Corynebacterium striatum is part of the human flora, it has recently
drawn attention both for its multidrug resistance and its role as an invasive
infection/outbreak agent. This cross-sectional study aimed to determine the
antimicrobial resistance and clonal relationships among C. striatum strains. In
total, 81 C. striatum strains were identified using Phoenix-100TM (BD, Sparks,
MD, USA). The antimicrobial resistance of the strains was determined using the
Kirby-Bauer disk diffusion method. Clonal relatedness among the strains was
performed via arbitrarily primed polymerase chain reaction (AP-PCR). All 81 C.
striatum strains were resistant to penicillin, cefotaxime, ciprofloxacin, and
tetracycline, but susceptible to vancomycin and linezolid. The resistance rates
to gentamicin, erythromycin, and clindamycin were 34.6%, 79%, and 87.7%
respectively. AP-PCR results showed no predominant clone among the C. striatum
strains. Corynebacterium striatum is reportedly the cause of an increasing number
of invasive infections/outbreaks. Moreover, treatment options are limited. The
study showed that vancomycin, linezolid, and gentamicin can be selected for the
empirical treatment of C. striatum infections. Although no single-clone outbreak 
was observed in our hospital, small clonal circulations were observed within some
units, indicating cross-contamination. Therefore, a comprehensive infection
control program is warranted in future.

DOI: 10.3390/pathogens9020136 
PMCID: PMC7168331
PMID: 32093060 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

