
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 Aug 6;334:108819. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108819. [Epub ahead of print]

Survival strategy of Cronobacter sakazakii against ampicillin pressure: Induction
of the viable but nonculturable state.

Zhang J(1), Wang L(2), Shi L(3), Chen X(3), Chen C(1), Hong Z(1), Cao Y(1), Zhao 
L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Nutraceuticals and Functional Foods,
College of Food Science, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642,
China.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Nutraceuticals and Functional Foods,
College of Food Science, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642,
China. Electronic address: wangli_scau@scau.edu.cn.
(3)Institute of Food Safety and Nutrition, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632,
China.
(4)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Nutraceuticals and Functional Foods,
College of Food Science, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642,
China. Electronic address: zlc@scau.edu.cn.

In a viable but nonculturable (VBNC) state, bacteria are no longer culturable on 
standard laboratory media, but still, remain a pathogenic potential and present
possible health risks. In this study, we investigated ampicillin's ability, which
is commonly used in dairy cattle disease treatment, to induce Cronobacter
sakazakii into the VBNC state. After treatment with ampicillin, the counts of
culturable cells decreased from 108 CFU/mL to an undetected level 7-30 days
post-treatment. Meanwhile, viable cells were still approximately 104-105
cells/mL, and could be resuscitated under appropriate conditions. Fluorescence
microscopy showed that VBNC cell maintained apparent cellular integrity, but that
the morphology of VBNC cells differed visibly from that of normal cells.
Moreover, the respiratory chain activity of VBNC cells were confirmed by flow
cytometry (FCM) analysis, suggesting that cells in a VBNC state were
physiologically active. Finally, transcriptomics analysis and real-time PCR
(qPCR) validation were used to explore the underlying mechanisms of VBNC cell
formation. Over-expression of relA, lon, ppx, and ppk in the toxin-antitoxin (TA)
trigger system contributed to VBNC cell formation. In the TA trigger system, RelA
and exopolyphosphatases/guanosine pentaphosphate phosphohydrolases (PPX/GPPA)
synthesize ppGpp, which activates polyphosphate kinase (PPK), the cellular enzyme
that accumulates plyphosphate (PolyP). PolyP combines with and stimulates Lon to 
degrade the antitoxins, thereby activating the toxins that induce a VBNC state.
The results of our research will facilitate a better understanding of the
survival strategies that bacteria develop to deal with ampicillin pressure and
the health risks associated with VBNC Cronobacter sakazakii induced by
antibiotics.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108819 
PMID: 32818765 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.

