
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 Sep 7;335:108857. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108857. [Epub ahead of print]

Cronobacter spp. isolated from aquatic products in China: Incidence, antibiotic
resistance, molecular characteristic and CRISPR diversity.

Li C(1), Zeng H(1), Zhang J(1), Luo D(1), Chen M(1), Lei T(1), Yang X(1), Wu
H(1), Cai S(1), Ye Y(1), Ding Y(2), Wang J(3), Wu Q(4).

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Microbial Safety and Health, State Key 
Laboratory of Applied Microbiology Southern China, Guangdong Institute of
Microbiology, Guangdong, Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510070, China.
(2)Department of Food Science &Technology, Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.
(3)College of Food Science, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou,
China.
(4)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Microbial Safety and Health, State Key 
Laboratory of Applied Microbiology Southern China, Guangdong Institute of
Microbiology, Guangdong, Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510070, China. Electronic
address: wuqp203@163.com.

Cronobacter species (Cronobacter spp.) are important foodborne pathogens that can
infect and cause serious life-threatening diseases in infants and
immunocompromised elderly. This study aimed to acquire data on Cronobacter spp.
contamination of aquatic products in China from 2011 to 2016. In total, 800
aquatic products were tested, and the overall contamination rate for Cronobacter 
spp. was 3.9% (31/800). The average contamination level of the positive samples
was 2.05 MPN/g. Four species and nine serotypes were identified among 33
isolates, of which the C. sakazakii serogroup O1 (n = 9) was the primary
serotype. The majority of Cronobacter spp. strains harbored highest resistance
against cephalothin (84.8%), followed by tetracycline (6.1%),
trimethoprim/sulfameth-oxazole (3.0%) and chloramphenicol (3.0%). Two isolates
were resistant to three antibiotics. In total, 26 sequence types and 33 CRISPR
types (including 6 new STs and 26 new CTs) were identified, which indicates the
extremely high diversity of Cronobacter spp. in aquatic products. Pathogenic C.
sakazakii ST4, ST1, and C. malonaticus ST7 were also observed. Overall, this
large-scale study revealed the relatively low prevalence and high genetic
diversity of Cronobacter spp. in aquatic products in China, and the findings
provide valuable information that can guide the establishment of effective
measures for the control and precaution of Cronobacter spp. in aquatic products
during production processes.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108857 
PMID: 32947144 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.

