
1. Adv Appl Microbiol. 2020;113:1-56. doi: 10.1016/bs.aambs.2020.07.001. Epub 2020
Aug 14.

Gaps in the assortment of rapid assays for microorganisms of interest to the
dairy industry.

O'Grady J(1), Cronin U(2), Tierney J(3), Piterina AV(1), O'Meara E(4), Wilkinson 
MG(4).

Author information: 
(1)Dairy Processing Technology Centre, University of Limerick, Limerick, Ireland.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Limerick, Limerick, Ireland. 
Electronic address: ultan.cronin@ul.ie.
(3)Glanbia Ingredients Ireland, Ballyragget, Co. Kilkenny, Ireland.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Limerick, Limerick, Ireland.

This review presents the results of a study into the offering of rapid microbial 
detection assays to the Irish dairy industry. At the outset, a consultation
process was undertaken whereby key stakeholders were asked to compile a list of
the key microorganisms of interest to the sector. The resultant list comprises 19
organisms/groups of organisms divided into five categories: single pathogenic
species (Cronobacter sakazakii, Escherichia coli and Listeria monocytogenes);
genera containing pathogenic species (Bacillus, Clostridium, Listeria,
Salmonella; Staphylococcus); broad taxonomic groupings (Coliforms,
Enterobacteriaceae, fecal Streptococci, sulfite reducing bacteria/sulfite
reducing Clostridia [SRBs/SRCs], yeasts and molds); organisms displaying certain 
growth preferences or resistance as regards temperature (endospores,
psychrotrophs, thermodurics, thermophiles); indicators of quality (total plate
count, Pseudomonas spp.). A survey of the rapid assays commercially available for
the 19 organisms/groups of organisms was conducted. A wide disparity between the 
number of rapid tests available was found. Four categories were used to summarize
the availability of rapid assays per organism/group of organisms: high coverage
(>15 assays available); medium coverage (5-15 assays available); low coverage (<5
assays available); no coverage (0 assays available). Generally, species or genera
containing pathogens, whose presence is regulated-for, tend to have a good
selection of commercially available rapid assays for their detection, whereas
groups composed of heterogenous or even undefined genera of mainly spoilage
organisms tend to be "low coverage" or "no coverage." Organisms/groups of
organisms with "low coverage" by rapid assays include: Clostridium spp.; fecal
Streptococci; and Pseudomonas spp. Those with "no coverage" by rapid assays
include: endospores; psychrotrophs; SRB/SRCs; thermodurics; and thermophiles. An 
important question is: why have manufacturers of rapid microbiological assays
failed to respond to the necessity for rapid methods for these organisms/groups
of organisms? The review offers explanations, ranging from the technical
difficulty involved in detecting as broad a group as the thermodurics, which
covers the spores of multiple sporeforming genera as well at least six genera of 
mesophilic nonsporeformers, to the taxonomically controversial issue as to what
constitutes a fecal Streptococcus or SRBs/SRCs. We review two problematic areas
for assay developers: validation/certification and the nature of dairy food
matrices. Development and implementation of rapid alternative test methods for
the dairy industry is influenced by regulations relating to both the
microbiological quality standards and the criteria alternative methods must meet 
to qualify as acceptable test methods. However, the gap between the certification
of developer's test systems as valid alternative methods in only a handful of
representative matrices, and the requirement of dairy industries to verify the
performance of alternative test systems in an extensive and diverse range of
dairy matrices needs to be bridged before alternative methods can be widely
accepted and adopted in the dairy industry. This study concludes that many
important dairy matrices have effectively been ignored by assay developers.

Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.aambs.2020.07.001 
PMCID: PMC7426214
PMID: 32948264 

