
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jun 9;11:1239. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01239. eCollection
2020.

Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Adhesion/Invasion Related Proteins in
Cronobacter sakazakii Based on Data-Independent Acquisition Coupled With
LC-MS/MS.

Li P(1), Dong X(1), Wang XY(1), Du T(1), Du XJ(1), Wang S(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Nutrition and Safety, Tianjin University of
Science and Technology, Tianjin, China.
(2)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Food Science and Health, School of Medicine, Nankai 
University, Tianjin, China.

Cronobacter sakazakii is foodborne pathogen that causes serious illnesses such as
necrotizing enterocolitis, meningitis and septicemia in infants. However, the
virulence determinants and mechanisms of pathogenicity of these species remain
unclear. In this study, multilocus sequence typing (MLST) was performed on 34 C. 
sakazakii strains and two strains with the same sequence type (ST) but distinct
adhesion/invasion capabilities were selected for identification of differentially
expressed proteins using data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomic analysis. A
total of 2,203 proteins were identified and quantified. Among these proteins, 210
exhibited differential expression patterns with abundance ratios ≥3 or ≤0.33 and 
P values ≤0.05. Among these 210 proteins, 67 were expressed higher, and 143 were 
expressed lower in C. sakazakii SAKA80220 (strongly adhesive/invasive strain)
compared with C. sakazakii SAKA80221 (weakly adhesive/invasive strain). Based on 
a detailed analysis of the differentially expressed proteins, the highly
expressed genes involved in flagellar assembly, lipopolysaccharide synthesis,
LuxS/AI-2, energy metabolic pathways and iron-sulfur cluster may be associated
with the adhesion/invasion capability of C. sakazakii. To verify the accuracy of 
the proteomic results, real-time qPCR was used to analyze the expression patterns
of some genes at the transcriptional level, and consistent results were observed.
This study, for the first time, used DIA proteomic to investigate potential
adhesion/invasion related factors as a useful reference for further studies on
the pathogenic mechanism of C. sakazakii.

Copyright © 2020 Li, Dong, Wang, Du, Du and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01239 
PMCID: PMC7296052
PMID: 32582128 

