
1. Foods. 2020 May 9;9(5). pii: E608. doi: 10.3390/foods9050608.

High-Throughput 16S rRNA Gene Sequencing of Butter Microbiota Reveals a Variety
of Opportunistic Pathogens.

Syromyatnikov MY(1)(2), Kokina AV(1)(2), Solodskikh SA(1)(2), Panevina AV(1),
Popov ES(3), Popov VN(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Cytology and Bioengineering, Voronezh State
University, 394018 Voronezh, Russia.
(2)Laboratory of Metagenomics and Food Biotechnology, Voronezh State University
of Engineering Technologies, 394036 Voronezh, Russia.
(3)Department of Service and Restaurant Business, Voronezh State University of
Engineering Technologies, 394036 Voronezh, Russia.

Microbial contamination of dairy products with a high fat content (e.g., butter) 
has been studied insufficiently. No studies using modern molecular methods to
investigate microbial communities in butter have been conducted so far. In this
work, we used high-throughput sequencing and Sanger sequencing of individual
bacterial colonies to analyze microbial content of commercially available butter 
brands. A total of 21 samples of commercially available butter brands were
analyzed. We identified a total of 94 amplicon sequence variants corresponding to
different microbial taxa. The most abundant lactic acid bacteria in butter were
Lactobacillus kefiri, Lactobacillus parakefiri, Lactococcus taiwanensis and
Lactococcus raffinolactis. A large amount of Streptococcus spp. bacteria (87.9%
of all identified bacteria) was found in one of the butter samples. Opportunistic
pathogens such as Bacillus cereus group, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Cronobacter
spp., Escherichia coli, Listeria innocua, Citrobacter spp., Enterococcus spp.,
Klebsiella pneumonia were detected. The analyzed butter samples were most
strongly contaminated with bacteria from the Bacillus cereus group, and to a
lesser extent - with Cronobacter spp. and Enterococcus spp. The plating and
Sanger sequencing of individual colonies revealed the presence of Enterobacter
cloacae and Staphylococcus epidermidis. The Sanger sequencing also showed the
presence of Cronobacter sakazakii in butter which can be dangerous for children
under the age of 1 year. We demonstrated that butter is a good growth medium for 
opportunistic pathogenic bacteria. Our data indicate that despite the fact that
butter is a dairy product with a long shelf life, it should be subjected to
quality control for the presence of opportunistic bacteria.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9050608 
PMCID: PMC7278763
PMID: 32397488 

