
1. Analyst. 2020 Jul 7;145(13):4477-4483. doi: 10.1039/d0an00270d. Epub 2020 May 11.

A signal cascade amplification strategy based on RT-PCR triggering of a
G-quadruplex DNAzyme for a novel electrochemical detection of viable Cronobacter 
sakazakii.

Yuan Y (1), Wu X , Liu Z , Ning Q , Fu L , Wu S .

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Shanghai University, Shanghai, 200444, P.R. China.
zhmliu@shu.edu.cn.

Cronobacter sakazakii is an important opportunistic food-borne pathogen, and it
can cause severe diseases with main symptoms including neonatal meningitis,
necrotizing enterocolitis, and sepsis. For the achievement of practical and
convenient detection of viable C. sakazakii, a simple and robust strategy based
on the cascade signal amplification of RT-PCR triggered G-quadruplex DNAzyme
catalyzed reaction was firstly used to develop an effective and sensitive DNAzyme
electrochemical assay. Without viable C. sakazakii in the samples there are no
RT-PCR and DNAzyme products, which can cause a weak electrochemical response.
Once viable C. sakazakii exists in the samples, an obvious enhancement of the
electrochemical response can be achieved after the target signal is amplified by 
RT-PCR and the resulting DNAzyme, which catalyze the oxidation of
3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine (TMB) by H2O2 with the assistance of the cofactor 
hemin. Our novel assay can be performed in a range of 2.4 × 107 CFU mL-1 to 3.84 
× 104 CFU mL-1 (R2 = 0.9863), with a detection limit of 5.01 × 102 CFU mL-1.
Through the assay of 15 real samples, electrochemical detection assay provided
the same results as conventional detection methods. Therefore, detection of
viable C. sakazakii based on G-quadruplex DNAzyme electrochemical assay with
RT-PCR demonstrates the significant advantages of high sensitivity, low cost and 
simple manipulation over existing approaches and offers an opportunity for
potential application in pathogen detection.

DOI: 10.1039/d0an00270d 
PMID: 32391531 

