
1. J Mol Neurosci. 2020 Jun 21. doi: 10.1007/s12031-020-01622-8. [Epub ahead of
print]

Cronobacter sakazakii Infection in Early Postnatal Rats Impaired
Contextual-Associated Learning: a Putative Role of C5a-Mediated NF-κβ and ASK1
Pathways.

Vinay P(1), Karen C(1), Balamurugan K(2), Rajan KE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of Animal Science, School of
Life Sciences, Bharathidasan University, Tiruchirappalli, 620024, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Alagappa University, Karaikudi, 630003, India.
(3)Behavioural Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of Animal Science, School of
Life Sciences, Bharathidasan University, Tiruchirappalli, 620024, India.
emmanuvel1972@yahoo.com.

This study was designed to test whether the Cronobacter sakazakii
infection-impaired contextual learning and memory are mediated by the activation 
of the complement system; subsequent activation of inflammatory signals leads to 
alternations in serotonin transporter (SERT). To test this, rat pups (postnatal
day, PND 15) were treated with either C. sakazakii (107 CFU) or Escherichia coli 
OP50 (107 CFU) or Luria bertani broth (100 μL) through oral gavage and allowed to
stay with their mothers until PND 24. Experimental groups' rats were allowed to
explore (PNDs 31-35) and then trained in contextual learning task (PNDs 36-43).
Five days after training, individuals were tested for memory retention (PNDs
49-56). Observed behavioural data showed that C. sakazakii infection impaired
contextual-associative learning and memory. Furthermore, our analysis showed that
C. sakazakii infection activates complement system complement anaphylatoxin (C5a)
(a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs (ADAMTS1)) and
mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase1 (MEKK1). Subsequently, MEKK1 induces
pro-inflammatory signals possibly through apoptosis signal-regulating kinase-1
(ASK-1), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK1/3) and protein kinase B gamma (AKT-3). In 
parallel, activated nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer B cells (NF-κB)
induces interleukin-6 (IL-6) and IFNα-1, which may alter the level of serotonin
transporter (SERT). Observed results suggest that impaired contextual learning
and memory could be correlated with C5a-mediated NF-κβ and ASK1 pathways.

DOI: 10.1007/s12031-020-01622-8 
PMID: 32567007 

