
1. Iran J Basic Med Sci. 2020 Sep;23(9):1184-1190. doi:
10.22038/ijbms.2020.41225.9752.

The first report of Enterobacter gergoviae carrying bla NDM-1 in Iran.

Khashei R(1), Edalati Sarvestani F(1), Malekzadegan Y(1), Motamedifar M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bacteriology and Virology, School of Medicine, Shiraz University
of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.

Objectives: Prompt detection of extended-spectrum Î²-lactamases (ESBL) and
carbapenemase-producing enterobacteriaceae is crucial for infection prevention
and control strategies. The present study aimed to characterize the ESBL and
carbapenemase genes among Enterobacter isolates from an Iranian inpatient
population.
Materials and Methods: A total of 96 Enterobacter isolates obtained from
inpatients between June 2016 and March 2017, were identified by the conventional 
microbiological methods and diagnostic kits. Antimicrobial susceptibility pattern
was performed using the disk diffusion method. The ESBL and carbapenemase genes
were screened using polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
Results: All clinical isolates of Enterobacter were classified as E. gergoviae
(52, 54.2%), E. aerogenes (34, 35.4%), E. cloacae (7, 7.3%), Cronobacter (E).
sakazakii (3, 3.1%). The highest and lowest antimicrobial resistance rates were
observed against ampicillin (93.8%) and imipenem (21.9%). High prevalence of
multi-drug resistance (MDR=96.9%) was substantial. Of the 96 Enterobacter
isolates, 35 (36.5%) and 28 (29.2%) were phenotypically ESBL-positive and
non-susceptible carbapenem, respectively. Overall, the frequency of evaluated
genes was as follows: blaCTX-M =25 (26%), blaTEM =30 (31.3%), blaSHV =12 (12.5%),
blaIMP =3 (3.1%), blaVIM =0 (0%), blaNDM =8 (8.3%), and blaKPC =0 (0%).
Conclusion: In this study, we report for the first time the presence of E.
gergoviae harboring blaNDM from an Iranian population. Regarding the increase of 
MDR Enterobacter spp. in our region, strict hygiene rules will be needed to
control the quick spread of ESBL and carbapenemase-producing Enterobacter
isolates in healthcare facilities of developing countries.

DOI: 10.22038/ijbms.2020.41225.9752 
PMCID: PMC7491492
PMID: 32963740 

