
1. Animals (Basel). 2020 Jul 29;10(8). pii: E1299. doi: 10.3390/ani10081299.

Occurrence and Molecular Characteristics of Mcr-1-Positive Escherichia coli from 
Healthy Meat Ducks in Shandong Province of China.

Liu F(1)(2), Zhang R(1)(2), Yang Y(1)(2), Li H(1)(2), Wang J(1)(2), Lan J(1)(2), 
Li P(1), Zhu Y(1)(2), Xie Z(1)(2), Jiang S(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Shandong Agricultural University, Taian
271000, China.
(2)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Biotechnology and Disease Control
and Prevention, Taian 271000, China.

Colistin has been used as a growth promotant in livestock feed for many years. In
China, mcr-1-positive Escherichia coli strains have been isolated from humans,
chickens, and pigs. To date, there are few reports about the prevalence and
molecular characteristics of fecal E. coli bearing mcr-1 in the meat ducks. In
this study, the prevalence of mcr-1 gene was investigated among 120 fecal E. coli
strains isolated from healthy meat ducks in Shandong province of China between
October 2017 and February 2018. A total of nine mcr-1-containing E. coli strains 
were identified and two were identified as extra-intestinal pathogenic E. coli
(ExPEC) among them. The clonal relationship of the nine E. coli strains was
determined by multilocus sequencing typing (MLST) and pulsed field gel
electrophoresis (PFGE), and the results indicated that all mcr-1-carrying
isolates were clonally unrelated. Two different genetic contexts of mcr-1 were
identified among these isolates. Colistin-resistant phenotype of all the isolates
was successfully transferred to the recipient strains by conjugation experiments 
and seven transconjugants carried a single plasmid. The mcr-1 was located on
three replicon plasmids: IncI2 (n = 4), IncFII (n = 2) and IncN (n = 1). Complete
sequence analysis of a representative plasmid pTA9 revealed that it was
strikingly similar with plasmid pMCR1-IncI2 of E. coli, plasmid pHNSHP45 of E.
coli, and plasmid pWF-5-19C of Cronobacter sakazakii, implying that pTA9-like
plasmids may be epidemic plasmids that mediate the spread of mcr-1 among
Enterobacteriaceae. These results highlight that healthy meat duck is a potential
reservoir for multidrug resistant mcr-1-containing E. coli strains.

DOI: 10.3390/ani10081299 
PMCID: PMC7459970
PMID: 32751361 

