
1. Environ Pollut. 2020 May;260:114047. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.114047. Epub 2020
Jan 28.

Remediation of resins-contaminated soil by the combination of electrokinetic and 
bioremediation processes.

Ma J(1), Zhang Q(2), Chen F(3), Zhu Q(1), Wang Y(2), Liu G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Low Carbon Energy Institute, China University of Mining and Technology, Xuzhou
221008, China.
(2)School of Environmental Science and Spatial Informatics, China University of
Mining and Technology, Xuzhou 221008, China.
(3)Low Carbon Energy Institute, China University of Mining and Technology, Xuzhou
221008, China; School of Environmental Science and Spatial Informatics, China
University of Mining and Technology, Xuzhou 221008, China. Electronic address:
chenfu@cumt.edu.cn.
(4)Geospatial Science, College of Science, Engineering and Health, RMIT
University, Melbourne 3000, Australia.

In this work, soil contaminated by petroleum resins was remediated by
electrokinetic-bioremediation (EK-BIO) technology for 60 days. A microbial
consortium, comprising Rhizobium sp., Arthrobacter globiformis, Clavibacter xyli,
Curtobacterium flaccumfaciens, Bacillus subtilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and
Bacillus sp., was used to enhance the treatment performance. The results indicate
that resin removal and phytotoxicity reduction were highest in the inoculated EK 
process, wherein 23.6% resins was removed from the soil and wheat seed
germination ratio was increased from 47% to around 90% after treatment. The
microbial counts, soil basal respiration and dehydrogenase activity were
positively related to resins degradation, and they could be enhanced by direct
current electric field. After remediation, the C/H ratio of resins decreased from
8.03 to 6.47. Furthermore, the structure of resins was analyzed by
Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, elemental analysis, and 1H nuclear
magnetic resonance (1H NMR) before and after treatment. It was found that the
changes of the structure of resins took place during EK-BIO treatment and finally
led to the reduction of aromaticity, aromaticity condensation and phytotoxicity.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.114047 
PMID: 32028193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

