
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Jul 14;9(7). pii: E409. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9070409.

The Variability of Thymol and Carvacrol Contents Reveals the Level of
Antibacterial Activity of the Essential Oils from Different Accessions of
Oliveria decumbens.

Khoshbakht T(1), Karami A(1), Tahmasebi A(2), Maggi F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Horticultural Science, School of Agriculture, Shiraz University,
71441-65186 Shiraz, Iran.
(2)Department of Agriculture, Minab Higher Education Center, University of
Hormozgan, 84156-83111 Bandar Abbas, Iran.
(3)School of Pharmacy, University of Camerino, 62032 Camerino, Italy.

Oliveria decumbens (Apiaceae) is an aromatic herb traditionally employed in the
Persian medicine for the treatment of infectious and gastrointestinal disorders. 
In the present study, we analyzed the chemical composition of essential oils
obtained from different Iranian populations and evaluated their efficacy on a
panel of human pathogens (Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli), probiotic 
(Bacillus subtilis), and phytopathogens (Clavibacter michiganensis,
Curtobacterium flaccumfaciens, Xanthomonas citri, and Agrobacterium tumefaciens).
The gas chromatographic-mass spectrometry analysis put in evidence four main
volatile constituents such as thymol (20.3-36.4%), carvacrol (18.8-33.1%),
Î³-terpinene (10.6-25.9%), and p-cymene (9.5-17.3%), though with significant
variability from an essential oil to another. Notably, the oils from the
populations sited in Nourabad Mamasani and Dehdasht showed the highest amount of 
the phenolic monoterpenes thymol (36.4 and 35.2%, respectively) and carvacrol
(33.1 and 30.6%, respectively). The antibacterial activity of O. decumbens
essential oils was assessed by the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and
minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC) methods, showing high activity for the
samples from Nourabad Mamasani and Dehdasht populations exhibiting high level of 
the above phenolics. The obtained MIC and MBC values (mg/ml) were in the ranges
0.0625-2 mg/ml and 1-16 mg/ml, respectively. Noteworthy, in some cases, the
antibacterial activity of O. decumbens essential oils was higher than that of
chloramphenicol used as positive control. The average MBCs displayed by the O.
decumbens samples showed that C. flaccumfaciens had the highest sensitivity to
the essential oils. Based on these results, our work shed light on selected O.
decumbens populations deserving proper breeding and cultivation strategies in
order to warrantee production of bioactive essential oils to be used at
pharmaceutical and agricultural level to combat several pathogens.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9070409 
PMCID: PMC7400187
PMID: 32674440 

