
1. Am J Clin Dermatol. 2020 Sep 11. doi: 10.1007/s40257-020-00560-w. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Oral Antibiotics for Acne.

Patel DJ(1), Bhatia N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry and Cell Biology, University of California San Diego, La Jolla,
USA.
(2)Therapeutics Clinical Research, 9025 Balboa Avenue, San Diego, CA, 92123, USA.
bhatiaharbor@gmail.com.

Oral antibiotics are integral for treating inflammatory acne based on what is
understood about the pathogenesis as well as the role of Cutibacterium acnes.
However, rising concerns of antibiotic resistance and the perception of
"antibiotic phobia" create potential limitations on their integration in an acne 
treatment regimen. When prescribing oral antibiotics, dermatologists need to
consider dosage, duration, and frequency, and to avoid their use as monotherapy. 
These considerations are important, along with the use of newer strategies and
compounds, to reduce adverse-event profiles, antibiotic resistance, and to
optimize outcomes. Aside from concomitant medications, allergies, and disease
severity, costs and patient demographics can influence variability in prescribing
plans. There are multiple published guidelines and consensus statements for the
USA and Europe to promote safe antibiotic use by dermatologists. However, there
is a lack of head-to-head studies and evidence for comparative superiority of any
individual antibiotic, as well as any evidence to support the use of agents other
than tetracyclines. Although oral antibiotics are one of the main options for
moderate to severe acne, non-antibiotic therapy such as isotretinoin and hormonal
therapies should be considered. As newer therapies and more outcomes data emerge,
so will improved management of antibiotic therapy to foster patient safety.

DOI: 10.1007/s40257-020-00560-w 
PMID: 32918267 

