
1. Case Rep Endocrinol. 2020 Aug 25;2020:7104806. doi: 10.1155/2020/7104806.
eCollection 2020.

Acute Bacterial Suppurative Thyroiditis following Fine Needle Aspiration: A Case 
Report and Review of the Literature.

Htet ZW(1), Tai ES(2), Yang SP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, National University
Hospital, Level 10, NUHS Tower Block, 1E Kent Ridge Road, Singapore 119228.
(2)Division of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Level 10, NUHS Tower Block, 1E Kent
Ridge Road, Singapore 119228.

Background: Fine needle aspiration (FNA) of thyroid nodules is a simple,
reliable, and inexpensive procedure performed on suspicious thyroid nodules found
in thyroid ultrasound (US). Acute bacterial suppurative thyroiditis is an
uncommon complication of FNA which, however, can be life threatening. Case
Presentation. A 49-year-old lady presented with fever and neck pain 1 month after
FNA with biochemical evidence of thyrotoxicosis. Repeat US of the thyroid showed 
interval enlargement of the thyroid nodule, and the culture of the cystic fluid
of repeat FNA grew Propionibacterium acnes. She responded well to bedside
aspiration and 2 weeks of antibiotic therapy without requiring surgical
intervention. Discussion. Acute bacterial suppurative thyroiditis following FNA
has been increasingly reported in immunocompetent hosts. There are 2 peculiar
features in our case: a smoldering course caused by an indolent organism and a
significant time lag between initial FNA and clinical presentation. On literature
review, it was found that the onset of acute bacterial suppurative thyroiditis
after FNA can range from a few days to up to 3 months. Clinicians should be aware
of this complication even if FNA has been performed a few months ago. Thyroid US 
and US-guided FNA are useful initial investigations. Conventional management of
acute bacterial suppurative thyroiditis has been surgery combined with
antimicrobial therapy. However, recently, a more conservative approach has been
reported to be effective in the treatment of acute bacterial suppurative
thyroiditis as well.
Conclusion: Proper infection control practices are necessary in performing the
FNA. Initial management (conservative versus surgical) of acute bacterial
thyroiditis should be based on the patient's clinical status and the extent of
infective focus.

Copyright Â© 2020 Zaw Win Htet et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/7104806 
PMCID: PMC7471785
PMID: 32908721 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to
disclose.

