
1. J Clin Aesthet Dermatol. 2020 Jun;13(6):11-16. Epub 2020 Jun 1.

The Antibiotic Susceptibility Profile of Cutibacterium Acnes in Maltese Patients 
with Acne.

Mercieca L(1)(2), Mangion J(1)(2), Cefai J(1)(2), Bezzina T(1)(2), Schwaiger
C(1)(2), Micallef D(1)(2), Corso R(1)(2), Scerri L(1)(2), Boffa MJ(1)(2), Caruana
P(1)(2), Clark E(1)(2), Aquilina S(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Drs. Mercieca, Mangion, Micallef, Corso, Scerri, Boffa, Clark, and Aquilina
are with the Department of Dermatology at Sir Paul Boffa Hospital in Floriana,
Malta.
(2)Ms. Cefai, Mr. Bezzina, Mr. Schwaiger, and Dr. Caruana are with the
Bacteriology Laboratory in the Pathology Department at Mater Dei Hospital in
Msida, Malta.

BACKGROUND: Antibiotics have been widely used for the management of acne
vulgaris, which has led to increased resistance of Cutibacterium acnes (C.
acnes). OBJECTIVES: We sought to determine the susceptibility profile of C.
acnes, isolated from patients with acne, to different prescribed antibiotics and 
compare our findings with global data. The relationship between antibiotic
resistance and sex, age, acne severity, presence of any affected siblings,
disease duration, and previous antimicrobial treatment was also investigated.
METHODS: Samples were collected from randomly selected pustular acne lesions of
patients attending the Dermatology Outpatients Clinic at Sir Paul Boffa Hospital 
in Floriana, Malta. Samples were inoculated and incubated in anaerobic conditions
until 100 cultured C. acnes samples were obtained. Antibiotic susceptibility
testing was then performed using azithromycin, clindamycin, doxycycline,
minocycline, tetracycline, and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole using the agar
dilution method. RESULTS: The highest resistance was observed to azithromycin
(18%) followed by clindamycin (16%). Resistance to doxycycline and tetracycline
was only found in two percent of the isolates and there was no resistance to
trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and minocycline. Resistance to azithromycin and
clindamycin was associated with acne severity (p=0.01 and p=0.03). Resistance to 
clindamycin was also statistically significantly higher in patients with a
history of antibiotic therapy or concurrent antibiotic therapy during the study
(p=0.04). CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first study documenting the
susceptibility of C. acnes isolates to different antibiotics in Malta. Future
research is needed to determine the clinical significance of antibiotic
resistance of C. acnes.

Copyright Â© 2020. Matrix Medical Communications. All rights reserved.


PMCID: PMC7442308
PMID: 32884613 

Conflict of interest statement: FUNDING:Funding was provided by the Maltese
Association of Dermatology and Venereology. DISCLOSURES:The authors have no
conflicts of interest relevant to the content of this article.

