
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Aug 10. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02158-1. [Epub ahead of
print]

Antimicrobial Resistance analysis of Pathogenic Bacteria Isolated from Freshwater
Nile Tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) Cultured in Kerala, India.

Preena PG(1), Dharmaratnam A(2), Swaminathan TR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Peninsular and Marine Fish Genetic Resources Centre of ICAR-NBFGR, CMFRI
Campus, P.O. Number 1603, Kochi, 682018, India. preenabimal@gmail.com.
(2)Peninsular and Marine Fish Genetic Resources Centre of ICAR-NBFGR, CMFRI
Campus, P.O. Number 1603, Kochi, 682018, India.

Aquaculture of popular freshwater species, Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus), 
accounts for around 71% of the total global tilapia production. Frequent use of
antibiotics for treating bacterial infections in tilapia leads to the emergence
of antimicrobial resistance. To mitigate the issue, proper evaluation methods and
control strategies have to be implemented. This study was aimed to analyze the
antimicrobial resistance of bacterial isolates from the infected Nile tilapia
cultured in freshwater. The recovered isolates were identified as Pseudomonas
entomophila, Edwardsiella tarda, Comamonas sp, Delftia tsuruhatensis, Aeromonas
dhakensis, A. sobria, A. hydrophila, A. lacus, Plesiomonas shigelloides and
Vogesella perlucida through phenotypic and genotypic analyses. Using Primer-E
software, Shannon Wiener diversity index of the isolates was determined as H'
(loge) = 2.58. Antibiotic susceptibility test of the recovered strains through
disk diffusion using 47 antibiotics, showed an elevated resistance pattern for
Aeromonas hydrophila, Pseudomonas entomophila and Comamonas with higher multiple 
antibiotic resistance indexes (MAR index > 0.3). The minimum inhibitory
concentration of antibiotics was > 256 mcg/ml for most of the resistant isolates.
Meanwhile, all the recovered isolates were susceptible to amikacin, aztreonam,
kanamycin, cefalexin, cefotaxime, levofloxacin, norfloxacin, piperacillin, and
polymyxin-B.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02158-1 
PMID: 32776225 

