
1. Water Res. 2020 Aug 15;181:115900. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2020.115900. Epub 2020
May 18.

Evaluating the effect of silver nanoparticles on bacteriophage lytic infection
cycle-a mechanistic understanding.

Gilcrease E(1), Williams R(1), Goel R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Utah, UT,
USA.
(2)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Utah, UT,
USA. Electronic address: ram.goel@utah.edu.

Bacteriophages and engineered nano-material (AgNPS) interactions is a relatively 
unexplored area of research. To answer the fundamental question whether
bacteriophage lytic growth cycle is affected by the presence of AgNPs, laboratory
experiments were performed with phages of Klebsiella pneumoniae, Delftia
tsuruhatensis, Salmonella typhimurium, and Shigella flexneri using silver
nanoparticles (AgNPs) with coating materials. One-step growth curves of
bacteriophages indicated that the presence of these nanoparticles, and the
associated ions of silver, produced pronounced effects on the lytic infection of 
certain bacteriophages. Effects included 96% reductions in post-infection phage
yield in terms of plaque forming units (PFUs) after phages were incubated with
silver nanoparticles and 28%-43% reductions from the presence of Ag+ alone.
However, when Klebsiella pneumonia phage KL and Salmonella typhimurium phage Det7
were exposed to silver nanoparticles coated with poly-N-vinyl-2 pyrrolidone
(PVP), an increase in final phage yield by as much as 250% was observed compared 
with the same phage not incubated with nanoparticles. A proposed mechanism,
observed by transmission electron microscopy and verified using synthetic biology
by which the nanoparticle binding phenotype can be produced, is that the binding 
of metal nanomaterial to phage virions results in potentially inhibitory effects.
This binding was found to be dependent on the presence of exposed positively
charged C-terminal amino-acid residues on the phage capsid surface, implied at
first by amino-acid sequence comparisons between capsid proteins of the different
phages used in this study. This was then proven experimentally using targeted DNA
editing methods to fuse positive charged amino-acid residues to the coat protein 
C-terminus of non-binding phage. This induced the AgNP binding phenotype, as
observed by TEM, DLS size measurements, and growth curve data that show the
mutant constructs to be functionally inhibited after exposure to AgNPs. This
research sets up a first platform for further research in the unexplored area of 
phage and AgNP interactions and provides useful findings.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2020.115900 
PMID: 32504909  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

