
1. Mater Sci Eng C Mater Biol Appl. 2019 Dec;105:110095. doi:
10.1016/j.msec.2019.110095. Epub 2019 Aug 15.

Accelerated corrosion of pipeline steel in the presence of Desulfovibrio
desulfuricans biofilm due to carbon source deprivation in CO2 saturated medium.

Eduok U(1), Ohaeri E(2), Szpunar J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering, University of
Saskatchewan, 57 Campus Drive, Saskatoon S7N 5A9, Saskatchewan, Canada.
Electronic address: ubong.eduok@usask.ca.
(2)Department of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering, University of
Saskatchewan, 57 Campus Drive, Saskatoon S7N 5A9, Saskatchewan, Canada.

The chemistry of bacterial biofilms as well as the nutritional composition of
culture environments may differ at any time within a growth process, especially
for SRB consortia within oil wells with limited carbon sources. In the oilfield, 
the presence of SRB biofilms on surfaces of steel substrates leads to
microbiologically influenced corrosion and compromised material integrity. In
this work, the survival of SRB cells and their impact on the pipeline steel
corrosion within simulated CO2-saturated oilfield-produced water with different
concentrations of organic carbon source have been investigated. Cell counts
reduced with the level of carbon source reduction (CSR) after incubation but more
sessile cells survived at 80% CSR (moderate carbon starvation) compared to 100%
CSR (extreme carbon starvation). The energy needed for cellular survival as well 
as biological support toward MIC could have been harnessed by a combination of
extracellular Feo oxidation and intracellular sulfate reduction even after carbon
source starvation. Severe anodic steel dissolution was observed at the end of the
culture period within the simulated CO2-saturated oilfield-produced water, and
this is attributed to SRB-led MIC and CO2 corrosion. Pipeline steel corroded more
when cultured within 80% CSR compared to the medium with both lactate and
citrate. Steel substrate corroded less with 100% CSR due to severely weakened SRB
biofilms from nutrient deprivation.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msec.2019.110095 
PMID: 31546354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

