
1. Environ Sci Technol. 2020 Jul 7;54(13):8061-8071. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.0c01456.
Epub 2020 Jun 18.

Effects of Extracellular Polymeric Substances on the Formation and Methylation of
Mercury Sulfide Nanoparticles.

Zhang Z(1), Si R(2), Lv J(3), Ji Y(1), Chen W(1), Guan W(1), Cui Y(1), Zhang
T(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Ministry of Education Key
Laboratory of Pollution Processes and Environmental Criteria, Tianjin Key
Laboratory of Environmental Remediation and Pollution Control, Nankai University,
Tianjin 300350, P. R. China.
(2)Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Shanghai Institute of Applied
Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 201204, P. R. China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology, Research
Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing
100085, P. R. China.

Growing evidence has suggested that microbial biofilms are potential
environmental "hotspots" for the production and accumulation of a bioaccumulative
neurotoxin, methylmercury. Here, we demonstrate that extracellular polymeric
substances (EPS), the main components of biofilm matrices, significantly
interfere with mercury sulfide precipitation and lead to the formation of
nanoparticulate metacinnabar available for microbial methylation, a natural
process predominantly responsible for the environmental occurrence of
methylmercury. EPS derived from mercury methylating bacteria, particularly
Desulfovibrio desulfuricans ND132, substantially increase the methylation
potential of nanoparticulate mercury. This is likely due to the abundant aromatic
biomolecules in EPS that strongly interact with mercury sulfide via inner-sphere 
complexation and consequently enhance the short-range structural disorder while
mitigating the aggregation of nanoparticulate mercury. The EPS-elevated
bioavailability of nanoparticulate mercury to D. desulfuricans ND132 is not
induced by dissolution of these nanoparticles in aqueous phase, and may be
dictated by cell-nanoparticle interfacial reactions. Our discovery is the first
step of mechanistically understanding methylmercury production in biofilms. These
new mechanistic insights will help incorporate microbial EPS and
particulate-phase mercury into mercury methylation models, and may facilitate the
assessment of biogeochemical cycling of other nutrient or toxic elements driven
by EPS-producing microorganisms that are prevalent in nature.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.0c01456 
PMID: 32511902 

