
1. Eur J Oral Sci. 2020 Apr;128(2):136-144. doi: 10.1111/eos.12682. Epub 2020 Jan
24.

Effect of different Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans strains on dual-species
biofilms formed with Porphyromonas gingivalis or Dialister pneumosintes.

Sha Q(1), Chen C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Periodontology, Diagnostic Sciences and Dental Hygiene, Herman
Ostrow School of Dentistry, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA,
USA.

There are five evolutionarily divergent clades of Aggregatibacter
actinomycetemcomitans, with possible differences in phenotype and virulence
potential among strains. This study examined the formation of biofilm by each of 
11 distinct strains of A. actinomycetemcomitans, alone or after coculture with
two species of oral bacteria (Porphyromonas gingivalis ATCC33277 or Dialister
pneumosintes ATCC33048). Confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) and electron
microscopy were used to characterize the dual-species biofilms of interest. A
reduction in dual-species A. actinomycetemcomitans-P. gingivalis biofilms was
observed for A. actinomycetemcomitans RHAA1, suggesting an antagonistic
relationship. The amounts of dual-species
A. actinomycetemcomitans-D. pneumosintes biofilms were either increased or
decreased in some - but not all - strains, indicative of strain-specific
phenotypes. The CLSM analyses confirmed the existence of an antagonistic
relationship between A. actinomycetemcomitans D7S-1 and P. gingivalis ATCC33277, 
and a synergistic relationship between A. actinomycetemcomitans D7S-1 and
D. pneumosintes ATCC33048. The electron microscopy analyses revealed distinct
morphological features of A. actinomycetemcomitans D7S-1 and D. pneumosintes
ATCC33048 dual-species biofilms. The results indicate that the relationship
between A. actinomycetemcomitans and oral bacteria may vary among strains, which 
could lead to distinct strain-specific patterns of niche sharing in subgingival
microbiota.

© 2019 Eur J Oral Sci.

DOI: 10.1111/eos.12682 
PMID: 31977126 

