
1. Anaerobe. 2020 Apr;62:102163. doi: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2020.102163. Epub 2020 Jan 
21.

Strong antimicrobial activity of collinin and isocollinin against periodontal and
superinfectant pathogens in vitro.

Pardo-Castaño C(1), Vásquez D(2), Bolaños G(1), Contreras A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Applied Thermodynamic Research Group, School of Chemical Engineering,
Universidad del Valle, 760032, Cali, Colombia.
(2)Periodontal Medicine Research Group, School of Dentistry, Universidad del
Valle, 760043, Cali, Colombia.
(3)Periodontal Medicine Research Group, School of Dentistry, Universidad del
Valle, 760043, Cali, Colombia. Electronic address:
adolfo.contreras@correounivalle.edu.co.

Periodontitis pathogenesis involves activation of host immune responses triggered
by microbial dysbiosis. Therefore, controlling periodontal pathogens in-vivo is a
main goal of periodontal therapy. New antimicrobials might help to control
periodontal infection and improve treatment outcomes at "the dark times" of
increasing antibiotic resistance. Here, we determined the biological activity of 
collinin and isocollinin against 8 bacterial strains. Antimicrobial activity of
collinin and isocollinin, chlorhexidine digluconate (CHX) and sodium hypochlorite
(NaClO) was evaluated against clinically relevant periodontal bacteria, like
Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans, Porphyromonas gingivalis, Fusobacterium
nucleatum, Prevotella intermedia, Dialister pneumosintes strains and
superinfectants like Escherichia coli, Staphylococcusaureus, and
Pseudomonasaeruginosa strains. A broth microdilution test was carried out to
determine the minimum inhibitory concentration of collinin and isocollinin
against those strains, and bacterial viability was determined by resazurin assay 
at diverse concentration and exposure times. P. gingivalis was the most
susceptible strain to collinin and isocollinin (MIC 2.1 μg/mL and 4.2 μg/mL
respectively). Other periodontal pathogens showed MICs <17 μg/mL for collinin and
MICs between 20 and 42 μg/mL for isocollinin, whereas CHX and NaClO showed MICs
of 62 and 326 μg/mL, respectively. Collinin and isocollinin also exhibited
antimicrobial activity against superinfectant bacteria (MIC < 21 and < 42 μg/mL, 
respectively). Overall, collinin and isocollinin showed a remarkable
antibacterial activity against relevant periodontal and superinfective bacteria, 
especially against P. gingivalis (MIC 2.1 μg/mL and 4.2 μg/mL respectively) and
the highly virulent P. aeruginosa (MIC 5.2 and 20.8 μg/mL, respectively).

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2020.102163 
PMID: 32007684 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no competing financial interest.

