
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Sep;202(7):1701-1708. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-01879-y. Epub 
2020 Apr 15.

Adaptative transcriptional response of Dietzia cinnamea P4 strain to sunlight
simulator.

Procópio L(1), Pádula M(2), van Elsas JD(3), Seldin L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Industrial Microbiology and Bioremediation Department, Universidade Federal Do
Rio de Janeiro, Caxias, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. lucianoprocopio@caxias.ufrj.br.
(2)Laboratório de Diagnóstico Molecular E Hematologia, Faculdade de Farmácia,
Universidade Federal Do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(3)Microbial Ecology Laboratory, Goningen University, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(4)Laboratório de Genética Microbiana, Instituto de Microbiologia Paulo de Góes, 
Universidade Federal Do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.

Responses to sunlight exposure of the oil-degrading Dietzia cinnamea P4 strain
were evaluated by transcriptional levels of SOS genes, photoreactivation and
genes involved in tolerance to high levels of reactive oxygen species. The P4
strain was exposed for 1 and 2 h and the magnitude of level changes in the mRNA
was evaluated by qPCR. The results described the activation of the SOS system,
with the decline of the repressor lexA gene levels and the concomitant increase
of recA and uvrAD genes levels. The genes that participate in the
photoreactivation process were also responsive to sunlight. The phrB gene
encoding deoxyribodipyrimidine photo-lyase had its expression increased after 1-h
exposure, while the phytAB genes showed a progressive increase over the studied
period. The protective genes against reactive oxygen species, catalases,
superoxides, peroxidases, and thioredoxins, had their expression rates detected
under the conditions validated in this study. These results show a fast and
coordinated response of genes from different DNA repair and tolerance mechanisms 
employed by strain P4, suggesting a complex concerted protective action against
environmental stressors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-01879-y 
PMID: 32296869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

