
1. Chronobiol Int. 2020 Jul;37(7):1067-1081. doi: 10.1080/07420528.2020.1778717.
Epub 2020 Jun 30.

The circadian disruption of night work alters gut microbiota consistent with
elevated risk for future metabolic and gastrointestinal pathology.

Mortaş H(1), Bilici S(1), Karakan T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Faculty of Health Sciences, Gazi
University , Ankara, Turkey.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine Gastroenterology, Faculty of Medicine, Gazi
University , Ankara, Turkey.

Day and night cycles are the most important cue for the central clock of human
beings, and they are also important for the gut clock. The aim of the study is to
determine the differences in the gut microbiota of rotational shift workers when 
working the day versus night shift. Fecal samples and other data were collected
from 10 volunteer male security officers after 4 weeks of day shift work
(07:00-15:00 h) and also after 2 weeks of night shift work (23:00-07:00 h). In
total, 20 stool samples were collected for analysis of gut microbiota (10
subjects x 2 work shifts) and stored at -80°C until analysis by 16 S rRNA
sequencing. The relative abundances of Bacteroidetes were reduced and those of
Actinobacteria and Firmicutes increased when working the night compared to day
shift. Faecalibacterium abundance was found to be a biomarker of the day shift
work. Dorea longicatena and Dorea formicigenerans were significantly more
abundant in individuals when working the night shift. Rotational day and night
shift work causes circadian rhythm disturbance with an associated alteration in
the abundances of gut microbiota, leading to the concern that such induced
alteration of gut microbiota may at least partially contribute to an increased
risk of future metabolic syndrome and gastrointestinal pathology.

DOI: 10.1080/07420528.2020.1778717 
PMID: 32602753 

