
1. J Agric Food Chem. 2020 Feb 19;68(7):1837-1843. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.9b00247.
Epub 2019 Apr 18.

Differential Catabolism of an Anthocyanin-Rich Elderberry Extract by Three Gut
Microbiota Bacterial Species.

Bresciani L, Angelino D, Vivas EI(1), Kerby RL(1), García-Viguera C(2), Del Rio
D(3), Rey FE(1), Mena P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bacteriology , University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison ,
Wisconsin 53706 , United States.
(2)Phytochemistry and Healthy Food Laboratory, Department of Food Science and
Technology , Centro de Edafología y Biología Aplicada de Segura (CEBAS)-Consejo
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC) , Campus de Espinardo, 30100
Murcia , Spain.
(3)Microbiome Research Hub , University of Parma , 43124 Parma , Italy.

Elderberries are good sources of anthocyanins, which are poorly absorbed in the
upper gastrointestinal tract but extensively transformed into phenolic
metabolites at the colonic level. Because different gut microbiota strains have
different metabolism, the catabolism of anthocyanins may lead to interindividual 
differences in metabolite production. In this work, an anthocyanin-rich
elderberry extract was incubated with three single gut microbial strains
(Enterobacter cancerogenous, Bifidobacterium dentium, and Dorea longicatena) up
to 4 days, to assess differences in their phenolic metabolism. All of the strains
degraded the elderberry anthocyanins, but the metabolic pathways followed were
different. Although some metabolites were common for all of the strains, a wide
disparity was observed in the kind and amount of several phenolic metabolites
produced by each species. These in vitro preliminary results may be of help in
the interpretation of the bioavailability of anthocyanins and give a clue to
understand interindividual variability in metabolite production.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.9b00247 
PMID: 30969770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

