
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Mar;70(3):1478-1488. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003827.
Epub 2019 Nov 6.

Eikenella exigua sp. nov., isolated from brain abscess and blood.

Stormo KA(1)(2), Nygaard RM(1), Bruvold TS(1), Dimmen G(1), Lindemann PC(1),
Jordal S(2), Kommedal Ø(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.
(2)Section of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Haukeland University
Hospital, Bergen, Norway.

We herein describe the first novel species within the genus Eikenella since it
was established in 1972 by the reclassification of 'Bacteroides corrodens' to
Eikenella corrodens. From a polymicrobial brain abscess, we encountered an
Eikenella isolate, PXXT, that could not validly be named E. corrodens. The
isolate grew on blood agar with small, translucent, pitting colonies after 3 days
of anaerobic incubation. By reviewing previously collected invasive isolates, we 
found an additional Eikenella strain, EI-02, from a blood culture exhibiting the 
same properties as PXXT. Phylogenetic analyses based on both whole genome and
individual house-keeping genes confirmed that the two strains allocate in a
phylogenetic cluster separate from E. corrodens. Using specific amplification and
sequencing of the Eikenella nusG gene, we further detected the novel Eikenella
species in six historic brain abscesses previously reported to contain E.
corrodens based on 16S metagenomics. Out of 24 Eikenella whole-genome projects
available in GenBank, eight cluster together with PXXT and EI-02. These isolates 
were recovered from brain abscess (n=2), blood (n=1), bone/soft tissue (n=3),
parotid gland (n=1) and unknown (n=1). It remains to be investigated whether the 
new species can cause endocarditis. The average nucleotide identity value between
strain PXXT and the E. corrodens type strain ATCC 23834T was 92.1 % and the
corresponding genome-to-genome distance value was 47.1 %, both supporting the
classification of PXXT as a novel species. For this species we propose the name
Eikenella exigua. The type strain of E. exigua is PXXT (DSM 109756T, NCTC
14318T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003827 
PMID: 31693476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

