
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 May;70(5):3167-3178. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004150.

Description of Eikenella halliae sp. nov. and Eikenella longinqua sp. nov.,
derived from human clinical materials, emendation of Eikenella exigua Stormo et
al. 2019 and emendation of the genus Eikenella to include species which are
strict anaerobes.

Bernard KA(1)(2), Burdz T(2), Wiebe D(2), Bernier AM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg,
Manitoba, Canada.
(2)National Microbiology Laboratory-CSCHAH, Public Health Agency of Canada,
Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.
(3)Department of Biology, Universit√© de Saint-Boniface, Winnipeg, Manitoba,
Canada.

The Haemophilus, Aggregatibacter, Cardiobacterium, Eikenella, Kingella (HACEK)
group genus Eikenella contained a single species, Eikenella corrodens, for many
years. In November 2019, Eikenella exigua was described after recovery from a
brain abscess and blood culture in Norway. Coincidentally, characterization of 22
Gram-negative bacteria resembling Eikenella from 17 Canadian patients had been
underway. Seven isolates from five patients were conclusively identifiable as E. 
corrodens. One (NML 120819) was deemed to represent a species of the genus
Eikenella most closely related to E. corrodens. Fourteen isolates had 97.6 to
98.8% similarities to E. corrodens by 16S rRNA gene sequencing, forming three
distinct groups by genome analyses. The largest contained ten anaerobic isolates 
from eight patients recovered from blood, brain, bone and other abscesses; upon
re-evaluation, this group was found to be most consistent with E. exigua. A
second facultatively anaerobic clade consisted of two ocular isolates from one
patient and a sinus isolate from a second patient. The third taxon consisted of a
single strictly anaerobic blood culture isolate. The novel taxa, like E.
corrodens, were poorly reactive biochemically and difficult to discern from each 
other phenotypically and chemotaxonomically, including by cellular fatty acids.
MALDI-TOF (Bruker) and whole-genome sequencing were used to further characterize 
isolates. Draft genomes for the strains had similar DNA G+C contents (55.38-58.53
mol%) while sizes varied from 1.82 Mb to 2.54 Mb. We propose here emendations of 
the genus Eikenella and the species Eikenella exigua, as well as describing
Eikenella halliae sp. nov. NML 130454T (=LMG 30894T=NCTC 14180T) and Eikenella
longinqua sp. nov. NML 02-A-017T (=LMG 30896T=NCTC 14179T), on the basis of these
findings.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004150 
PMID: 32302276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

