
1. Water Res. 2020 Sep 9;187:116397. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2020.116397. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Chloramphenicol biodegradation by enriched bacterial consortia and isolated
strain Sphingomonas sp. CL5.1: The reconstruction of a novel biodegradation
pathway.

Zhang J(1), Gan W(2), Zhao R(1), Yu K(3), Lei H(1), Li R(1), Li X(4), Li B(5).

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Provincial Engineering Research Center for Urban Water Recycling and
Environmental Safety, Tsinghua Shenzhen International Graduate School, Tsinghua
University, Shenzhen 518055, China; Shenzhen Engineering Research Laboratory for 
Sludge and Food Waste Treatment and Resource Recovery, Tsinghua Shenzhen
International Graduate School, Tsinghua University, Shenzhen 518055, China;
School of Environment, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Engineering Research Center for Urban Water Recycling and
Environmental Safety, Tsinghua Shenzhen International Graduate School, Tsinghua
University, Shenzhen 518055, China; Shenzhen Engineering Research Laboratory for 
Sludge and Food Waste Treatment and Resource Recovery, Tsinghua Shenzhen
International Graduate School, Tsinghua University, Shenzhen 518055, China.
(3)School of Environment and Energy, Shenzhen Graduate School, Peking University,
Shenzhen 518055, China.
(4)Guangdong Provincial Engineering Research Center for Urban Water Recycling and
Environmental Safety, Tsinghua Shenzhen International Graduate School, Tsinghua
University, Shenzhen 518055, China; Shenzhen Engineering Research Laboratory for 
Sludge and Food Waste Treatment and Resource Recovery, Tsinghua Shenzhen
International Graduate School, Tsinghua University, Shenzhen 518055, China;
Shenzhen Environmental Science and New Energy Laboratory, Tsinghua-Berkeley
Shenzhen Institute, Tsinghua University, Shenzhen 518055, China.
(5)Guangdong Provincial Engineering Research Center for Urban Water Recycling and
Environmental Safety, Tsinghua Shenzhen International Graduate School, Tsinghua
University, Shenzhen 518055, China; Shenzhen Engineering Research Laboratory for 
Sludge and Food Waste Treatment and Resource Recovery, Tsinghua Shenzhen
International Graduate School, Tsinghua University, Shenzhen 518055, China.
Electronic address: bingli@sz.tsinghua.edu.cn.

Figuring out the comprehensive metabolic mechanism of chloramphenicol (CAP) is
critical to improving CAP removal in the bioremediation process. In this study,
CAP biodegradation by six consortia and isolated Sphingomonas sp. CL5.1 were
systematically investigated using the combination of high-performance liquid
chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry, second-generation,
and third-generation sequencing technologies. The CAP-degrading capability of six
consortia was enhanced while CAP mineralization rate declined after long-term
enrichment. The microbial community structures of six consortia were all
simplified with 69%-82% decline in species richness after continuous passages for
one year. The core genera of consortia CL and CH included Sphingomonas,
Cupriavidus, Burkholderia, Chryseobacterium, and Pigmentiphaga, which accounted
for over 98% of the total population. Sphingomonas was discovered as a new CAP
degrader that could subsist on CAP as the sole carbon, nitrogen, and energy
sources. Sphingomonas sp. CL5.1 was able to completely remove 120 mg/L CAP within
48 hours with a mineralization rate of 50.4%. The presence of acetate or nitrite 
could inhibit CAP metabolization by strain CL5.1. Four CAP metabolic pathways
were constructed, including modification of the C3 hydroxyl group of CAP via
acetylation, oxidization, dehydration and the bond cleavage between C1 and C2. C3
hydroxyl group dehydration and C1-C2 bond-cleavage were first reported regarding 
to CAP biotransformation. Strain CL5.1 played a core role in the consortia and
was responsible for C3 hydroxyl oxidation, C3 dehydration, and C1-C2 bond
cleavage. Genomic information of strain CL5.1 revealed the further mineralization
pathways of downstream product p-nitrobenzoic acid via ortho- and meta-cleavage.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2020.116397 
PMID: 32947114 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

