
1. Dermatol Ther. 2020 Aug 22:e14215. doi: 10.1111/dth.14215. [Epub ahead of print]

Is antibiotics prescription needed in infants with topical corticosteroids
treatment for moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis?

Liu Y(1), Zhou Q(2), Dai W(3), Wang S(1), Liang Y(1), Li Y(2), Shen C(1), Li
D(3), Li Y(1), Jiao L(1), Bian Y(1), Li S(2), Tang YW(4)(5), Ma L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Beijing Children's Hospital, Capital Medical
University, National Center for Children's Health, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Computer Science, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China.
(3)Department of Microbial Research, WeHealthGene Institute, Shenzhen, China.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer, New York, 
New York, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Weill Medical College of
Cornell University, New York, New York, USA.

The cutaneous microbiota responses to skin health as well as atopic dermatitis.
To reveal the microbiota effect in atopic dermatitis children under therapy with 
topical corticosteroids and antibiotics. 59 atopic dermatitis patients were
randomized to two treatment groups (by corticosteroids or combination therapy) in
Beijing Children's Hospital. The lesion microbial samples were collected for 16S 
rDNA sequencing and bioinformatics analysis. After treatment, 57 patients
recovered significantly. Though topical antibiotics application blocked the
restoration of commensal Streptococcus, no remarkable differences of cutaneous
microbiota were identified between the two groups along the treatment. In subject
1081, who received the combination therapy, the Streptococcus and Pseudomonas as 
well as Chryseobacterium increased dramatically. On the contrary, the
Staphylococcus aureus decreased sharply in subject 1107 with topical
corticosteroids treatment Our preliminary study suggested the necessity to
consider cutaneous microbiota profile when prescribing antibiotics.

Â© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/dth.14215 
PMID: 32827193 

