
1. Environ Pollut. 2020 Oct;265(Pt A):114202. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.114202.
Epub 2020 Feb 26.

Adding a complex microbial agent twice to the composting of laying-hen manure
promoted doxycycline degradation with a low risk on spreading tetracycline
resistance genes.

Liang J(1), Jin Y(1), Wen X(1), Mi J(2), Wu Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern Agriculture, College of Animal
Science, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, 510642, China.
(2)Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern Agriculture, College of Animal
Science, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, 510642, China; Key Lab
of Chicken Genetics, Breeding and Reproduction, Ministry of Agriculture, South
China Agricultural University, 510642, Guangdong, China; Guangdong Provincial Key
Laboratory of Agro-Animal Genomics and Molecular Breeding, South China
Agricultural University, Guangzhou, 510642, China; Ministry of Agriculture Key
Laboratory of Tropical Agricultural Environment, South China Agricultural
University, Guangzhou, 510642, China; Guangdong Engineering Research Center for
Disposal and Resource Utilization of Animal Wastes, Yunfu, Xinxing, 527400,
China.
(3)Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern Agriculture, College of Animal
Science, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, 510642, China; Key Lab
of Chicken Genetics, Breeding and Reproduction, Ministry of Agriculture, South
China Agricultural University, 510642, Guangdong, China; Guangdong Provincial Key
Laboratory of Agro-Animal Genomics and Molecular Breeding, South China
Agricultural University, Guangzhou, 510642, China; Ministry of Agriculture Key
Laboratory of Tropical Agricultural Environment, South China Agricultural
University, Guangzhou, 510642, China; Guangdong Engineering Research Center for
Disposal and Resource Utilization of Animal Wastes, Yunfu, Xinxing, 527400,
China. Electronic address: wuyinbao@scau.edu.cn.

Poultry manure is a reservoir for antibiotics and antibiotic resistance genes and
composting is an effective biological treatment for manure. This study explored
the effect of using two methods of adding a complex microbial agent to the
composting of laying-hen manure on doxycycline degradation and tetracycline
resistance genes elimination. The results showed that incorporating a complex
microbial agent at 0.8% (w/w) on the 0th and 11th day (group MT2) effectively
degraded doxycycline with a final degradation rate of 46.83 ± 0.55%. The
half-life of doxycycline in this group was 21.90 ± 0.00 days and was
significantly lower than that of group MT1 (1.6% (w/w) complex microbial agent
added on the 0th day) and group DT (compost without complex microbial agent). But
there was no significant difference in the final degradation rate of doxycycline 
between group DT and group MT1. The addictive with the complex microbial agent
changed the microbial community structure. Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes and
Proteobacteria were the dominant phyla during composting. Aerococcus, Desemzia,
Facklamia, Lactobacillus, Streptococcus, and Trichococcus were the bacteria
related to the degradation of doxycycline. Moreover, the incorporation of a
complex microbial agent could decrease the risk on spreading tetracycline
resistance genes. The single addition promoted the elimination of tetM, whose
possible hosts were Enterococcus, Lactobacillus, Staphylococcus, and
Trichococcus. Adding the complex microbial agent twice promoted the elimination
of tetX, which was related to the low abundance of Chryseobacterium,
Flavobacterium and Neptunomonas in group MT2. Redundancy analysis showed that the
bacterial community, residual doxycycline and physiochemical properties have a
potential effect on the variation in tetracycline resistance genes levels.
Overall, adding the complex microbial agent twice is an effective measure to
degrade doxycycline.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.114202 
PMID: 32806409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest No conflict of 
interest exits in the submission of this manuscript, and manuscript is approved
by all authors for publication. All the authors listed have approved the
manuscript that is enclosed. We declare that the work described was original
research that has not been published previously, and not under consideration for 
publication elsewhere, in whole or in part.

