
1. Environ Res. 2020 Aug 20;191:110069. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2020.110069. [Epub
ahead of print]

Characteristics and metabolic pathway of the bacteria for heterotrophic
nitrification and aerobic denitrification in aquatic ecosystems.

Qiao Z(1), Sun R(1), Wu Y(2), Hu S(1), Liu X(1), Chan J(1), Mi X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Chemistry, Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi'an,
710129, China.
(2)Department of Applied Chemistry, Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi'an,
710129, China. Electronic address: wuygal@nwpu.edu.cn.

The present study investigated the nitrogen removal characteristics and metabolic
pathway of bacteria in aquatic ecosystem, with a focus on heterotrophic
nitrification and aerobic denitrification. The bacteria demonstrated significant 
heterotrophic nitrification and aerobic denitrification capacity. The highest
ammonium-N, nitrate-N, and nitrite-N removal efficiencies were 95.31 ± 0.11%,
98.91 ± 0.05%, and 98.79 ± 0.09%, respectively. The Monod model was used to
estimate the maximum rate of substrate utilization (Rmo) and the half-saturation 
concentration (Ks) for the two substrates, i.e., ammonium and nitrate. The
kinetic coefficients were 3.34 mg/L/d (Rmo) and 30.59 mg/L (Ks) for ammonium-N,
respectively, and 14.23 mg/L/d (Rmo) and 215.24 mg/L (Ks) for nitrate-N,
respectively. The effects of initial nitrogen (ammonium-N or nitrate-N)
concentration, temperature, and dissolved oxygen (DO) on nitrogen removal rate
were investigated using response surface methodology (RSM), and the optimal
conditions for nitrogen removal were determined. The principal nitrogen removal
pathway of the bacteria was proposed as complete heterotrophic nitrification and 
aerobic denitrification, which was performed by six key genera: Arthrobacter,
Pseudomonas, Rhodococcus, Bacillus, Massilia, and Rhizobium. Chryseobacterium and
other denitrifying species may also reduce nitrification products (NOX-) via
aerobic denitrification.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2020.110069 
PMID: 32828759 

