
1. Microb Ecol. 2020 Aug 24. doi: 10.1007/s00248-020-01567-w. [Epub ahead of print]

A Neurotoxic Insecticide Promotes Fungal Infection in Aedes aegypti Larvae by
Altering the Bacterial Community.

Noskov YA(1)(2), Kabilov MR(3), Polenogova OV(4), Yurchenko YA(4), Belevich
OE(4), Yaroslavtseva ON(4), Alikina TY(3), Byvaltsev AM(5), Rotskaya UN(4),
Morozova VV(3), Glupov VV(4), Kryukov VY(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Systematics and Ecology of Animals, Siberian Branch, Russian
Academy of Sciences, Novosibirsk, Russia, 630091. yunoskov@gmail.com.
(2)National Research Tomsk State University, Tomsk, Russia, 634050.
yunoskov@gmail.com.
(3)Institute of Chemical Biology and Fundamental Medicine, Siberian Branch,
Russian Academy of Sciences, Novosibirsk, Russia, 630090.
(4)Institute of Systematics and Ecology of Animals, Siberian Branch, Russian
Academy of Sciences, Novosibirsk, Russia, 630091.
(5)Novosibirsk State University, Novosibirsk, Russia, 630090.

Symbiotic bacteria have a significant impact on the formation of defensive
mechanisms against fungal pathogens and insecticides. The microbiome of the
mosquito Aedes aegypti has been well studied; however, there are no data on the
influence of insecticides and pathogenic fungi on its structure. The fungus
Metarhizium robertsii and a neurotoxic insecticide (avermectin complex) interact 
synergistically, and the colonization of larvae with hyphal bodies is observed
after fungal and combined (conidia + avermectins) treatments. The changes in the 
bacterial communities (16S rRNA) of Ae. aegypti larvae under the influence of
fungal infection, avermectin toxicosis, and their combination were studied. In
addition, we studied the interactions between the fungus and the predominant
cultivable bacteria in vitro and in vivo after the coinfection of the larvae.
Avermectins increased the total bacterial load and diversity. The fungus
decreased the diversity and insignificantly increased the bacterial load.
Importantly, avermectins reduced the relative abundance of Microbacterium
(Actinobacteria), which exhibited a strong antagonistic effect towards the fungus
in in vitro and in vivo assays. The avermectin treatment led to an increased
abundance of Chryseobacterium (Flavobacteria), which exerted a neutral effect on 
mycosis development. In addition, avermectin treatment led to an elevation of
some subdominant bacteria (Pseudomonas) that interacted synergistically with the 
fungus. We suggest that avermectins change the bacterial community to favor the
development of fungal infection.

DOI: 10.1007/s00248-020-01567-w 
PMID: 32839879 

