
1. Water Res. 2020 Aug 16;186:116306. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2020.116306. [Epub ahead
of print]

Facilitated bio-mineralization of N,N-dimethylformamide in anoxic denitrification
system: Long-term performance and biological mechanism.

Wang J(1), Liu X(1), Jiang X(1), Zhang L(1), Hou C(1), Su G(1), Wang L(1), Mu
Y(2), Shen J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Chemical Pollution Control and Resources Reuse,
School of Environmental and Biological Engineering, Nanjing University of Science
and Technology, Nanjing 210094, China.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory of Urban Pollutant Conversion, Department of Applied
Chemistry, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei 230026, China.
(3)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Chemical Pollution Control and Resources Reuse,
School of Environmental and Biological Engineering, Nanjing University of Science
and Technology, Nanjing 210094, China. Electronic address:
shenjinyou@mail.njust.edu.cn.

Due to highly recalcitrant and toxicological nature of N,N-dimethylformamide
(DMF), efficient removal of DMF is challenging for biological wastewater
treatment. In this study, an anoxic denitrification system was developed and
continuously operated for 220 days in order to verify the enhanced DMF
biodegradation mechanism. As high as 41.05 mM DMF could be thoroughly removed in 
the anoxic denitrification reactor at hydraulic residence time (HRT) of 24 h,
while the total organic carbon (TOC) and nitrate removal efficiencies were as
high as 95.7 ± 2.5% and 98.4 ± 1.1%, respectively. Microbial community analyses
indicated that the species related to DMF hydrolysis (Paracoccus, Brevundimonas
and Chryseobacterium) and denitrification (Paracoccus, Arenimonas,
Hyphomicrobium, Aquamicrobium and Bosea) were effectively enriched in the anoxic 
denitrification system. Transcriptional analysis coupled with enzymatic activity 
assay indicated that both hydrolysis and mineralization of DMF were largely
enhanced in the anoxic denitrification system. Moreover, the occurrence of
microbial denitrification distinctly facilitated carbon source utilization to
produce electron and energy, which was rather beneficial for better reactor
performance. This study demonstrated that the anoxic denitrification system would
be a potential alternative for efficient treatment of wastewater polluted by
recalcitrant pollutants such as DMF.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2020.116306 
PMID: 32861183 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

