
1. Mol Cell Probes. 2020 Aug;52:101571. doi: 10.1016/j.mcp.2020.101571. Epub 2020
Apr 11.

A real-time PCR assay for detection of emerging infectious Elizabethkingia
miricola.

Zhang Q(1), Hu R(1), Gu Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Aquatic Animal Medicine, College of Fisheries, Huazhong
Agricultural University, Wuhan, 430070, China; Hubei Engineering Technology
Research Center for Aquatic Animal Diseases Control and Prevention, Wuhan,
430070, China; ShuangshuishuiShuanglü Institute, Huazhong Agricultural
University, Wuhan, 430070, China.
(2)Department of Aquatic Animal Medicine, College of Fisheries, Huazhong
Agricultural University, Wuhan, 430070, China; Hubei Engineering Technology
Research Center for Aquatic Animal Diseases Control and Prevention, Wuhan,
430070, China; ShuangshuishuiShuanglü Institute, Huazhong Agricultural
University, Wuhan, 430070, China. Electronic address: guzemao@mail.hzau.edu.cn.

Elizabethkingia miricola, a Gram-negative bacillus, is emerging as a
life-threatening pathogen in both humans and animals. However, no specific and
rapid diagnostic method exists to detect E. miricola. Here, we established a
real-time PCR assay for the rapid, sensitive, and specific detection of E.
miricola with a wide dynamic range of 108 copies/μL to 102 copies/μL. The
detection limit of the real-time assay was 145 copies/μL, which was 100 times
more sensitive than conventional PCR. All clinical isolates E. miricola from
different host species yield very close Tm (80.25 ± 0.25 °C). Additionally, no
cross-reaction or false positives were observed in the assay for non-target
bacterial species. The performance of this assay was primarily assessed by
testing frog tissue samples. Overall, our study provided a real-time PCR assay,
which is a rapid, sensitive, and specific diagnostic method that could be used
for early diagnosis and epidemiological investigation of E. miricola.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mcp.2020.101571 
PMID: 32289377 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest No conflict of 
interest declared.

