
1. FEMS Microbiol Ecol. 2020 Oct 1;96(10). pii: fiaa168. doi:
10.1093/femsec/fiaa168.

Columbia spotted frogs (Rana luteiventris) have characteristic skin microbiota
that may be shaped by cutaneous skin peptides and the environment.

Loudon AH(1), Kurtz A(2), Esposito E(2), Umile TP(3), Minbiole KPC(3), Parfrey
LW(1)(4), Sheafor BA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology and Biodiversity Centre, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z4, CA.
(2)Biology Department, Carroll College, Helena, Montana, 59625-0002, USA.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Villanova University, Villanova, Pennsylvania,
19085-1603, USA.
(4)Department of Botany, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British
Columbia, V6T 1Z4, CA.

Global amphibian declines due to the fungal pathogen Batrachochytrium
dendrobatidis (Bd) have led to questions about how amphibians defend themselves
against skin diseases. A total of two amphibian defense mechanisms are
antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), a component of amphibian innate immune defense and
symbiotic skin bacteria, which can act in synergy. We characterized components of
these factors in four populations of Columbia spotted frogs (Rana luteiventris)
to investigate their role in disease defense. We surveyed the ability of their
AMPs to inhibit Bd, skin bacterial community composition, skin metabolite
profiles and presence and intensity of Bd infection. We found that AMPs from R.
luteiventris inhibited Bd in bioassays, but inhibition did not correlate with Bd 
intensity on frogs. R. luteiventris had two prevalent and abundant core bacteria:
Rhizobacter and Chryseobacterium. Rhizobacter relative abundance was negatively
correlated with AMP's ability to inhibit Bd, but was not associated with Bd
status itself. There was no relationship between metabolites and Bd. Bacterial
communities and Bd differ by location, which suggests a strong environmental
influence. R. luteiventris are dominated by consistent core bacteria, but also
house transient bacteria that are site specific. Our emergent hypothesis is that 
host control and environmental factors shape the microbiota on R. luteiventris.

Â© FEMS 2020.

DOI: 10.1093/femsec/fiaa168 
PMID: 32815986 

