
1. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2020 Aug 14;106:574-582. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.08.019. 
[Epub ahead of print]

Effects of dietary T-2 toxin on gut health and gut microbiota composition of the 
juvenile Chinese mitten crab (Eriocheir sinensis).

Wang C(1), Wang X(2), Huang Y(1), Bu X(1), Xiao S(1), Qin C(3), Qiao F(1), Qin
JG(4), Chen L(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Aquaculture Nutrition and Environmental Health, School of Life
Sciences, East China Normal University, 500 Dongchuan Rd, Shanghai, 200241,
China.
(2)Laboratory of Aquaculture Nutrition and Environmental Health, School of Life
Sciences, East China Normal University, 500 Dongchuan Rd, Shanghai, 200241,
China. Electronic address: xdwang@bio.ecnu.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province for Fishes Conservation and Utilization in 
the Upper Reaches of the Yangtze River, Neijiang Normal University, Neijiang,
641100, PR China.
(4)School of Biological Sciences, Flinders University, Adelaide, SA, 5001,
Australia.
(5)Laboratory of Aquaculture Nutrition and Environmental Health, School of Life
Sciences, East China Normal University, 500 Dongchuan Rd, Shanghai, 200241,
China. Electronic address: lqchen@bio.ecnu.edu.cn.

The current study aims to investigate the effects of dietary T-2 toxin on the
intestinal health and microflora in the juvenile Chinese mitten crab (Eriocheir
sinensis) with an initial weight 2.00 ± 0.05 g. Juvenile crabs were fed with
experimental diets supplemented with T-2 toxin at 0 (control), 0.6 (T1 group),
2.5 (T2 group) and 5.0 (T3 group) mg/kg diet for 8 weeks. Dietary T-2 toxin
increased the malondialdehyde (MDA) content and the expression of Kelch-like
ECH-associated protein 1 (keap1) gene while the expression of cap 'n' collar
isoform C (CncC) decreased in the intestine. The activities of glutathione
peroxidase (GSH-Px) and total anti-oxidation capacity (T-AOC) in the intestine
increased only in the lower dose of dietary T-2. Dietary T-2 toxin significantly 
increased the mRNA expression of caspase-3, caspase-8, Bax and mitogen-activated 
protein kinase (MAPK) genes and the ratio of Bax to Bcl-2 accompanied with a
reduction of Bcl-2 expression. Furthermore, T-2 toxin decreased the mRNA levels
of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), peritrophic membrane (PM1 and PM2) and immune
regulated nuclear transcription factors (Toll-like receptor: TLR, myeloid
differentiation primary response gene 88: Myd88, relish and
lipopolysaccharide-induced TNF-α factor: LITAF). The richness and diversity of
the gut microbiota were also affected by dietary T-2 toxin in T3 group. The
similar dominant phyla in the intestine of the Chinese mitten crab in the control
and T3 groups were found including Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, Tenericutes and
Proteobacteria. Moreover, the inclusion of dietary T-2 toxin of 4.6 mg/kg
significantly decreased the richness of Bacteroidetes and increased the richness 
of Firmicutes, Tenericutes and Proteobacteria in the intestine. At the genus
level, Dysgonomonas and Romboutsia were more abundant in T3 group than those in
the control. However, the abundances of Candidatus Bacilloplasma,
Chryseobacterium and Streptococcus in T3 group were lower than those in the
control. This study indicates that T-2 toxin could cause oxidative damage and
immunosuppression, increase apoptosis and disturb composition of microbiota in
the intestine of Chinese mitten crab.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.08.019 
PMID: 32798696 

