
1. Nutr Res. 2020 Jun;78:72-81. doi: 10.1016/j.nutres.2020.05.004. Epub 2020 May 17.

In older women, a high-protein diet including animal-sourced foods did not impact
serum levels and urinary excretion of trimethylamine-N-oxide.

Dahl WJ(1), Hung WL(2), Ford AL(3), Suh JH(3), Auger J(4), Nagulesapillai V(4),
Wang Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, University of Florida, 359
Newell Dr, Gainesville, FL 32611, USA. Electronic address: wdahl@ufl.edu.
(2)School of Food Safety, Taipei Medical University, 250 Wu-Hsing St, Taipei,
11031, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, University of Florida, 359
Newell Dr, Gainesville, FL 32611, USA.
(4)Rosell Institute for Microbiome and Probiotics, 6100 Royalmount, Montreal,
Quebec,, Canada H4P 2R2.

Diets including red meat and other animal-sourced foods may increase proteolytic 
fermentation and microbial-generated trimethylamine (TMA) and, subsequently,
trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO), a metabolite associated with increased risk of
cardiovascular disease and dementia. It was hypothesized that compared to usual
dietary intake, a maintenance-energy high-protein diet (HPD) would increase
products of proteolytic fermentation, whereas adjunctive prebiotic, probiotic,
and synbiotic supplementation may mitigate these effects. An exploratory aim was 
to determine the association of the relative abundance of the TMA-generating
taxon, Emergencia timonensis, with serum and urinary TMAO. At 5 time points
(usual dietary intake, HPD diet, HPD + prebiotic, HPD + probiotic, and HPD +
synbiotic), urinary (24-hour) and serum metabolites and fecal microbiota profile 
of healthy older women (n = 20) were measured by liquid chromatography-tandem
mass spectrometry and 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing analyses, respectively.
The HPD induced increases in serum levels of l-carnitine, indoxyl sulfate, and
phenylacetylglutamine but not TMAO or p-cresyl sulfate. Urinary excretion of
l-carnitine, indoxyl sulfate, phenylacetylglutamine, and TMA increased with the
HPD but not TMAO or p-cresyl sulfate. Most participants had undetectable levels
of E.timonensis at baseline and only 50% during the HPD interventions, suggesting
other taxa are responsible for the microbial generation of TMA in these
individuals. An HPD diet with or without a prebiotic, probiotic, or synbiotic
elicited an increase in products of proteolytic fermentation. The urinary
l-carnitine response suggests that the additional dietary l-carnitine provided
was primarily bioavailable, providing little substrate for microbial conversion
to TMA and subsequent TMAO formation.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nutres.2020.05.004 
PMID: 32544852 

