
1. Environ Sci Technol. 2020 Aug 4;54(15):9652-9661. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.0c02424.
Epub 2020 Jul 23.

Inactivation of Bacteria by Peracetic Acid Combined with Ultraviolet Irradiation:
Mechanism and Optimization.

Zhang T(1), Wang T(1), Mejia-Tickner B(1), Kissel J(1), Xie X(1), Huang CH(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Georgia Institute of
Technology, Atlanta, Georgia 30332, United States.

Peracetic acid (PAA) is an emerging disinfectant for municipal wastewater
treatment owing to good biocidal effects and limited harmful by-product
formation. This study investigated the inactivation of Gram-negative Escherichia 
coli (E. coli) and Gram-positive Enterococcus durans (E. durans) and
Staphylococcus epidermidis (S. epidermidis) by PAA combined with UV concurrently 
(UV/PAA) or sequentially (PAA-UV/PAA) for enhanced disinfection. Under UV/PAA,
the contributions of different mechanisms (UV, PAA, reactive radicals (mainly •OH
and CH3C(O)OO•), and the synergistic effect of all mechanisms involved) to the
overall inactivation were quantitatively assessed. Results revealed that radicals
played a moderate role in the enhanced disinfection, while the synergistic effect
presented a greater contribution, which could be partially linked to the
diffusion of PAA into the cells as evidenced for the first time by a fluorescence
microscopic method. Taking advantage of PAA diffusion into bacteria, pre-exposure
of PAA followed by UV/PAA was demonstrated to yield the highest disinfection
efficiency. Indeed, compared to UV/PAA, PAA-UV/PAA could achieve additional
4.7-5.4, 4.1-5.3, and 2.9-3.4 log inactivation of E. coli, E. durans, and S.
epidermidis, respectively, in clean water and secondary/tertiary wastewater
effluents when the same amounts of PAA and UV doses were applied in both
approaches. Bacterial regrowth tests confirmed minimal regrowth potential after
the disinfection.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.0c02424 
PMID: 32643925 

