
1. Int Microbiol. 2020 Jun 13. doi: 10.1007/s10123-020-00133-1. [Epub ahead of
print]

Lead and cadmium-resistant bacterial species isolated from heavy
metal-contaminated soils show plant growth-promoting traits.

Abdollahi S(1), Golchin A(2), Shahryari F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Soil Science Department, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Zanjan, Zanjan,
Iran. samaneh.abdollahi87@yahoo.com.
(2)Soil Science Department, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Zanjan, Zanjan,
Iran.
(3)Plant Protection Department, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Zanjan,
Zanjan, Iran.

Application of metal-resistant rhizobacteria is a promising approach for
detoxification and bioremediation of contaminated soils. In order to isolate,
identify, and characterize lead and cadmium-resistant bacteria, nearly 30 soil
samples were collected from heavy metal-contaminated sites, and five resistant
bacterial strains were isolated and identified based on their cultural,
physiological, biochemical, and molecular characteristics as Enterobacter
cloacae, Enterobacter kobei, Bacillus cereus, Rhizobium pusense, and
Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The nucleotide information of these strains is
available in GenBank under the accession numbers of MH327251, MH327252, MH327253,
MH327254, and MK123361, respectively. The minimum inhibitory concentrations
(MICs) against lead and cadmium differed for each isolate and the isolates showed
higher MIC against lead (3500 μg ml-1) than cadmium (100 μg ml-1). Assessment of 
the heavy metal degradation capacity of the species showed 10-60% and 5-40%
reduction in concentrations of lead and cadmium, respectively. The highest
ability for P-solubilization was measured for the R. pusense, A. tumefaciens, and
B. cereus species, while the R. pusense and B. cereus species had the capability 
to solubilize potassium. The studied species also had the ability to produce
indole acetic acid (IAA) and/or hydrogen cyanide production (HCN). Inoculation of
ornamental cabbage cultivated in a heavy metal-contaminated soil with the
isolated species significantly increased biomass and Pb and Cd uptake of the
plant. With respect to plant growth promoting and heavy metal-resistant traits of
the studied species, it is concluded that these species can have great
significance in bioremediation and management of environmental pollution.

DOI: 10.1007/s10123-020-00133-1 
PMID: 32533267 

