
1. Avian Pathol. 2020 Aug;49(4):355-360. doi: 10.1080/03079457.2020.1753653. Epub
2020 May 18.

Development of an in-house ELISA for detection of antibodies against Enterococcus
cecorum in Pekin ducks.

Jung A(1), Rautenschlein S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinic for Poultry, University of Veterinary Medicine Hannover, Hannover,
Germany.

Enterococcus cecorum (EC) is known to cause skeletal lesions in broiler chickens 
and also systemic infections in Pekin ducks. Despite the importance of the
pathogen, there is still a lack of serological diagnostic tools for the detection
of EC infections. Here we describe the development of an in-house indirect
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the detection of EC-specific
antibodies and its application by examination of 67 sera from experimentally
infected Pekin ducks, 710 field samples from four Pekin duck breeder flocks
previously vaccinated with inactivated vaccines, and 80 samples from commercial
Pekin ducks coming from vaccinated parent flocks. All groups that had been
experimentally inoculated via the air sac route were positive in the new ELISA,
with significantly (P ≤ 0.05) increased mean sample/positive (S/P) ratios of
0.71-2.70 at days 7, 14 and 21 post-infection, while orally inoculated ducks and 
the EC-free control group remained negative with mean S/P ratios of 0.0-0.15.
Antibodies were also detected in each of four vaccinated Pekin duck breeder
flocks; 67.8% of the samples were antibody positive. The highest S/P ratios were 
found between 16 and 26 weeks (median S/P ratios from 0.15 to 1.03), but
antibodies were still detected in some serum samples in weeks 61-67 post-hatch.
No antibodies were detected in the commercial Pekin ducks. Antibody development
in the ducks may be influenced by the composition of the inactivated vaccine. The
new ELISA provides a useful tool for investigations of response to EC infections 
and vaccinations.

DOI: 10.1080/03079457.2020.1753653 
PMID: 32271095 

