
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Apr;103(4):2969-2981. doi: 10.3168/jds.2019-17185. Epub 2020
Feb 12.

Enterococcus hirae WEHI01 isolated from a healthy Chinese infant ameliorates the 
symptoms of type 2 diabetes by elevating the abundance of Lactobacillales in
rats.

Wei M(1), Gu E(1), Luo J(1), Zhang Z(1), Xu D(1), Tao X(1), Shah NP(2), Wei H(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Nanchang University,
Nanchang 330047, China.
(2)Food and Nutritional Science, School of Biological Science, University of Hong
Kong, Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Nanchang University,
Nanchang 330047, China. Electronic address: weihua@ncu.edu.cn.

Enterococcus hirae WEHI01 is a potential probiotic strain isolated from a healthy
Chinese infant. This strain has previously been characterized as having
cholesterol-lowering potential and good dairy fermentation performance. In this
study, we used rat models with obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM)
induced by a high fat and sucrose diet and low-dose streptozotocin, respectively,
and we evaluated the effect of E. hirae WEHI01 on glycolipid metabolism,
glycolipid-related gene expression, organ histopathology, and intestinal flora
changes in the 2 models. Our results showed that administration of 5.0 × 109 cfu 
of E. hirae WEHI01 for 4 wk decreased serum lipid levels and regulated glycolipid
metabolism in the liver of obese rats. Following continuous administration of the
same concentration of E. hirae WEHI01 to a T2DM rat model for another 5 wk, E.
hirae WEHI01 improved glucose tolerance, recovered body weight loss, and led to
significant decreases in tumor necrosis factor-α, IL-6, IL-10, and total bile
acid in serum. We also found that E. hirae WEHI01 restored the morphology of the 
pancreas, kidney, and liver, and changed the composition of the gut microbiota
(i.e., decreased the Shannon index, increased the Simpson index, and
substantially increased the abundance of Lactobacillales). Combining the results 
for the obese model and the T2DM model, we speculated that beneficial effects of 
E. hirae WEHI01 on T2DM could be due to (1) a significant increase in PPARA
expression and a tendency for increased CYP7A1 expression in the liver of obese
rats, promoting the conversion of cholesterol into bile acid and reducing serum
total bile acid levels in T2DM model rats; or (2) a change in gut microbial
diversity, especially elevated Lactobacillales abundance, which reduced the total
bile acid in T2DM model rats. These results demonstrated that E. hirae WEHI01 has
the potential to ameliorate type 2 diabetes in rats and provide a promising
rationale for further research into the prevention and treatment of T2DM.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2019-17185 
PMID: 32059859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

