
1. Food Res Int. 2019 Nov;125:108622. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2019.108622. Epub 2019 
Aug 17.

Physiological and proteomic response of Escherichia coli O157:H7 to a
bioprotective lactic acid bacterium in a meat environment.

Orihuel A(1), Terán L(2), Renaut J(3), Planchon S(3), Valacco MP(4), Masias E(5),
Minahk C(5), Vignolo G(1), Moreno S(4), De Almeida AM(6), Saavedra L(2), Fadda
S(7).

Author information: 
(1)Technology, Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos, Consejo Nacional de
Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CERELA-CONICET), San Miguel de Tucumán,
Tucumán, Argentina.
(2)Genetics, Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos, Consejo Nacional de
Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CERELA-CONICET), San Miguel de Tucumán,
Tucumán, Argentina.
(3)LIST - Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology "Environmental Research 
and Innovation" (ERIN) Department, Belvaux, Luxembourg.
(4)Instituto de Química Biológica de la Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales 
(IQUIBICEN), CONICET Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires C1428EGA,
Argentina.
(5)Instituto Superior de Investigaciones Biológicas (INSIBIO), CONICET-UNT,
Instituto de Química Biológica "Dr. Bernabé Bloj", Facultad de Bioquímica,
Química y Farmacia, UNT. Chacabuco 461, T4000ILI - San Miguel de Tucumán,
Argentina.
(6)LEAF - Linking Landscape, Environment, Agriculture and Food, Instituto
Superior de Agronomia, University of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal.
(7)Technology, Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos, Consejo Nacional de
Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CERELA-CONICET), San Miguel de Tucumán,
Tucumán, Argentina. Electronic address: sfadda@cerela.org.ar.

The enterohemorrhagic Escherichia (E.) coli (EHEC) is a pathogen of great concern
for public health and the meat industry all over the world. The high economic
losses in meat industry and the high costs of the illness highlight the necessity
of additional efforts to control this pathogen. Previous studies have
demonstrated the inhibitory activity of Enterococcus mundtii CRL35 towards EHEC, 
showing a specific proteomic response during the co-culture. In the present work,
additional studies of the EHEC-Ent. mundtii interaction were carried out: i)
differential protein expression of E. coli O157:H7 NCTC12900 growing in
co-culture with Ent. mundtii in a meat environment, ii) the reciprocal influence 
between these two microorganisms in the adhesion to extracellular matrix (ECM)
proteins and iii) the possible induction of the phage W933, coding for Shiga
toxin (Stx1), by Ent. mundtii CRL35. Proteomic analysis showed a significant
repression of a number of E. coli NCTC12900 proteins in co-culture respect to its
single culture, these mostly related to the metabolism and transport of amino
acids and nucleotides. On the other hand, statistically significant
overexpression of EHEC proteins involved in stress, energy production, amino acid
metabolism and transcription was observed at 30 h respect to 6 h when EHEC grew
in co-culture. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD014588. 
Besides, EHEC showed a decreased adhesion capacity to ECM proteins in the
presence of the bioprotective strain. Finally, Ent. mundtii CRL35 did not induce 
the lytic cycle of W933 bacteriophage, thus indicating its potential safe use for
eliminating this pathogen. Overall, this study expands the knowledge of EHEC-
Ent. mundtii CRL35 interaction in a meat environment, which will certainly
contribute to find out effective biological strategies to eliminate this
pathogen.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2019.108622 
PMID: 31554055 

