
1. Commun Dis Intell (2018). 2020 Sep 15;44. doi: 10.33321/cdi.2020.44.72.

Australian Group on Antimicrobial Resistance (AGAR) Australian Enterococcal
Sepsis Outcome Programme (AESOP) Annual Report 2019.

Coombs GW(1), Daley DA(2), Mowlaboccus S(3), Pang S(1); Australian Group on
Antimicrobial Resistance.

Author information: 
(1)Antimicrobial Resistance and Infectious Disease (AMRID) Research Laboratory,
Murdoch University, Murdoch, Western Australia, Australia; Department of
Microbiology, PathWest Laboratory Medicine-WA, Fiona Stanley Hospital, Murdoch,
Western Australia, Australia.
(2)Department of Microbiology, PathWest Laboratory Medicine-WA, Fiona Stanley
Hospital, Murdoch, Western Australia, Australia; Australian Group on
Antimicrobial Resistance, Fiona Stanley Hospital, Murdoch, Western Australia,
Australia.
(3)Antimicrobial Resistance and Infectious Disease (AMRID) Research Laboratory,
Murdoch University, Murdoch, Western Australia, Australia.

From 1 January to 31 December 2019, thirty-nine institutions around Australia
participated in the Australian Enterococcal Sepsis Outcome Programme (AESOP). The
aim of AESOP 2019 was to determine the proportion of enterococcal bacteraemia
isolates in Australia that were antimicrobial resistant, and to characterise the 
molecular epidemiology of the E. faecium isolates. Of the 1,361 unique episodes
of bacteraemia investigated, 95.2% were caused by either E. faecalis (51.4%) or
E. faecium (43.8%). Ampicillin resistance was not detected in E. faecalis but was
detected in 91.1% of E. faecium. Vancomycin non-susceptibility was detected in
0.1% of E. faecalis and in 41.8% of E. faecium. Overall, 45.4% of E. faecium
harboured vanA and/or vanB genes. For the vanA/vanB positive E. faecium isolates,
49.1% harboured vanA genes only and 50.6% vanB genes; 0.3% harboured both vanA
and vanB genes. The percentage of E. faecium bacteraemia isolates resistant to
vancomycin in Australia is substantially higher than that seen in most European
countries. E. faecium consisted of 78 multilocus sequence types (STs), of which
75.0% of isolates were classified into six major STs containing ten or more
isolates. All major STs belong to clonal cluster (CC) 17, a major
hospital-adapted polyclonal E. faecium cluster. The predominant STs (ST1424,
ST17, ST796, ST80, ST1421, and ST78) were found across most regions of Australia.
The most prevalent clone was ST1424, which was identified in all regions except
the Northern Territory and Western Australia. Overall, 51.4% of isolates
belonging to the six predominant STs harboured vanA or vanB genes. In 2019, AESOP
has shown that enterococcal bacteraemias in Australia are frequently caused by
polyclonal ampicillin-resistant high-level gentamicin-resistant vanA or vanB E.
faecium which have limited treatment options.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia CC BY-NC-ND.

DOI: 10.33321/cdi.2020.44.72 
PMID: 32988338 

