
1. Front Vet Sci. 2020 Feb 11;7:49. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2020.00049. eCollection 2020.

Characterization of Lactic Acid Bacteria Isolated From the Gastrointestinal Tract
of a Wild Boar as Potential Probiotics.

Li M(1), Wang Y(1), Cui H(1), Li Y(1), Sun Y(1), Qiu HJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Veterinary Biotechnology, Harbin Veterinary Research
Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Harbin, China.

Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) are major microorganisms used for probiotic purposes
and prime parts of the human and mammalian gut microbiota, which exert important 
health-promoting effects on the host. The present study aimed to evaluate and
compare the probiotic potential and safety of LAB strains isolated from the
gastrointestinal tract of a wild boar from the Greater Khingan Mountains, China. 
Amongst all of the isolated LAB strains, five isolates identified as
Lactobacillus mucosae, Lactobacillus salivarius, Enterococcus hirae, Enterococcus
durans, and Enterococcus faecium, were remarkably resistant to acid and bile
salt. The probiotic characteristics (including adhesion capability, antimicrobial
activities, autoaggregation, and coaggregation abilities), and safety properties 
(including hemolytic activity, antibiotic resistance, absence/presence of
virulence factors, and in vivo safety) were evaluated. The results showed that
all five isolates exhibited high adhesive potential, remarkable aggregation
capacity, and antibacterial activities. Upon assessment of the safety, these
strains were negative for hemolytic activity and all tested virulence genes. In
vivo safety assessment showed no adverse effects of isolated strains
supplementation on the body weight gain and organ indices of the treated mice.
This study revealed that these LAB isolates, especially L. salivarius M2-71,
possess desirable probiotic properties and have great potentials for the
development of feed additives for animals to promote health.

Copyright Â© 2020 Li, Wang, Cui, Li, Sun and Qiu.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2020.00049 
PMCID: PMC7026679
PMID: 32118070 

