
1. J Glob Antimicrob Resist. 2020 Sep;22:598-600. doi: 10.1016/j.jgar.2020.06.012.
Epub 2020 Jun 27.

Whole genome sequence of Enterococcus gallinarum EG81, a porcine strain
harbouring the oxazolidinone-phenicol resistance gene optrA with chromosomal and 
plasmid location.

Yao TG(1), Li BY(1), Luan RD(1), Wang HN(1), Lei CW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Bio-Resource and Eco-Environment of Ministry of Education,
College of Life Sciences, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China; Animal Disease
Prevention and Food Safety Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Chengdu, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Bio-Resource and Eco-Environment of Ministry of Education,
College of Life Sciences, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China; Animal Disease
Prevention and Food Safety Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Chengdu, China.
Electronic address: leichangwei@scu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to characterise the whole genome sequence of
linezolid-intermediate Enterococcus gallinarum strain EG81 of swine origin in
China.
METHODS: Whole genome of EG81 was sequenced using Illumina MiSeq platform
combined with the Nanopore PromethION platform, and assembled de novo using Canu 
v1.5. NCBI Prokaryotic Genome Annotation Pipeline (PGAP) was used to annotate the
genome of EG81. Antimicrobial resistance genes were identified using CGE
ResFinder 3.2.
RESULTS: The genome of EG81 consists of one 3,433,237-bp chromosome and two
plasmids, pEG81-1 (51,632 bp) and pEG81-2 (3425 bp). A total of 3285 coding
sequences and 80 RNA genes were predicted by PGAP. The oxazolidinone-phenicol
resistance gene optrA is located on both the chromosome and plasmid pEG81-1
associated with Tn554 and Tn558, respectively. In addition, EG81 harbours vanC1XY
(vancomycin resistance), fexA (phenicol), dfrG (trimethoprim), aadD, ant(6)-Ia
and ant(9)-Ia (aminoglycoside), erm(A) and erm(B) (macrolide), and tet(L) and
tet(M) (tetracycline).
CONCLUSION: Here, we first report the oxazolidinone-phenicol gene optrA in E.
gallinarum that is intrinsically resistant to vancomycin, which poses a great
threat to public health. The genome sequence of E. gallinarum EG81 provides
valuable information for the dissemination of optrA among vancomycin-resistant
enterococci.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgar.2020.06.012 
PMID: 32603905 

