
1. Infect Drug Resist. 2020 Feb 20;13:597-605. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S232514. eCollection
2020.

Carbapenem-Resistant Enterobacter hormaechei ST1103 with IMP-26 Carbapenemase and
ESBL Gene bla SHV-178.

Gou JJ(#)(1), Liu N(#)(1)(2), Guo LH(2), Xu H(2), Lv T(2), Yu X(2), Chen YB(2),
Guo XB(1), Rao YT(1), Zheng BW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou 450052, People's Republic of China.
(2)Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious
Diseases, State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious
Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou 310003, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Purpose: To investigate the occurrence and genetic characteristics of the bla
IMP-26-positive plasmid from a multidrug-resistant clinical isolate, Enterobacter
hormaechei L51.
Methods: Species identification was determined by MALDI-TOF MS and Sanger
sequencing. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing was performed by the agar
dilution and broth microdilution. Whole-genome sequencing was conducted using
Illumina HiSeq 4000-PE150 and PacBio Sequel platforms, and the genome was
annotated by the RAST annotation server. The ANI analysis of genomes was
performed using OAT. Phylogenetic reconstruction and analyses were performed
using the Harvest suite based on the core-genome SNPs of 61 publicly available E.
hormaechei genomes.
Results: The E. hormaechei L51 genome consists of a 5,018,729 bp circular
chromosome and a 343,918 bp conjugative IncHI2/2A plasmid pEHZJ1 encoding bla
IMP-26 which surrounding genetic context was intI1-bla IMP-26-ltrA-qacE∆1-sul1. A
new sequence type (ST1103) was assigned for the isolate L51 which was resistant
to cephalosporins, carbapenems, but sensitive to piperacillin-tazobactam,
amikacin, tigecycline, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and colistin. Phylogenetic
analysis demonstrated that E. hormaechei L51 belonged to the same subspecies as
the reference strain E. hormaechei SCEH020042, however 18,248 divergent SNP were 
identified. Resistance genes in pEHZJ1 including aac(3)-IIc, aac(6') -IIc, bla
SHV-178, bla DHA-1, bla TEM-1, bla IMP-26, ereA2, catII, fosA5, qnrB4, tet(D),
sul1 and dfrA19.
Conclusion: In our study, we identified a conjugative IncHI2/2A plasmid carrying 
bla IMP-26 and bla SHV-178 in E. hormaechei ST1103, a novel multidrug-resistant
strain isolated from China, and describe the underlying resistance mechanisms of 
the strain and detailed genetic context of mega plasmid pEHZJ1.

© 2020 Gou et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S232514 
PMCID: PMC7039083
PMID: 32110070 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in
this work.

