
1. J Food Prot. 2019 Nov;82(11):1857-1863. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-19-089.

Antibiotic Resistance of Enterobacteriaceae Isolated from Fresh Fruits and
Vegetables and Characterization of their AmpC β-Lactamases.

Al-Kharousi ZS(1), Guizani N(1), Al-Sadi AM(2), Al-Bulushi IM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Sultan Qaboos University, P.O. Box
34, Al-Khod 123, Sultanate of Oman.
(2)Department of Crop Sciences, College of Agricultural and Marine Sciences,
Sultan Qaboos University, P.O. Box 34, Al-Khod 123, Sultanate of Oman (ORCID:
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0702-9298 [N.G.]).

Enterobacteria may gain antibiotic resistance and be potent pathogens wherever
they are present, including in fresh fruits and vegetables. This study tested the
antibiotic resistance of enterobacteria isolated from 13 types of local and
imported fresh fruits and vegetables (n = 105), using the standard Kirby-Bauer
disk diffusion method. Phenotypic and genotypic characterizations of AmpC
β-lactamases were determined in cefoxitin-resistant isolates. Ten percent of the 
enterobacteria tested (n = 88) were pansusceptible, 74% were resistant to at
least one antibiotic, and 16% were multidrug resistant. Enterobacteria isolates
showed the highest antibiotic resistance against ampicillin (66%), cephalothin
(57%), amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (33%), cefoxitin (31%), tetracycline (9%),
nalidixic acid (7%), trimethoprim (6%), and kanamycin (5%). Three isolates showed
intermediate resistance to the clinically important antibiotic imipenem.
Escherichia coli isolated from lettuce exhibited multidrug resistance against
five antibiotics. Fifteen isolates were confirmed to have AmpC β-lactamase, using
the inhibitor-based test and the antagonism test; the latter test confirmed that 
the enzyme was an inducible type. Four types of ampC β-lactamase genes (CIT, EBC,
FOX, and MOX) were detected in eight isolates: four Enterobacter cloacae isolates
and one isolate each of Citrobacter freundii, Enterobacter asburiae, Enterobacter
hormaechei, and Enterobacter ludwigii. It was concluded that fresh fruits and
vegetables might play a role as a source or vehicle for transferring
antibiotic-resistant bacteria that might spread to other countries through
exportation. The clinically significant AmpC β-lactamase was rarely documented in
the literature on bacteria isolated from fruits and vegetables, and to our
knowledge, this is the first report on the detection of an inducible type in such
commodities.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-19-089 
PMID: 31609646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

