
1. Microb Drug Resist. 2020 May;26(5):505-519. doi: 10.1089/mdr.2019.0052. Epub 2019
Oct 30.

Antibiotic Susceptibility and Virulence Genes in Enterococcus Isolates from Wild 
Mammals Living in Tuscany, Italy.

Dec M(1), Stępień-Pyśniak D(1), Gnat S(2), Fratini F(3), Urban-Chmiel R(1), Cerri
D(3), Winiarczyk S(4), Turchi B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Prevention and Avian Diseases and Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine, Institute of Biological Bases of Animal Diseases, University
of Life Sciences in Lublin, Lublin, Poland.
(2)Department of Veterinary Microbiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
Institute of Biological Bases of Animal Diseases, University of Life Sciences in 
Lublin, Lublin, Poland.
(3)Department of Veterinary Science, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.
(4)Department of Epizootiology and Clinic of Infectious Diseases, Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine, University of Life Sciences in Lublin, Lublin, Poland.

Drug resistance is of great importance to human and animal health, but wild
environments are still poorly understood in terms of their function as reservoirs
of dangerous microbes and resistance determinants. The aim of the study was to
determine the antibiotic susceptibility and virulence factors of Enterococcus
bacteria from wildlife in Tuscany, Italy. Of the 36 mammalian fecal samples, 52
isolates were derived and classified as Enterococcus faecium (46% of isolates),
Enterococcus hirae (19%), Enterococcus faecalis (13%), Enterococcus gallinarum
(8%), Enterococcus casseliflavus (6%), Enterococcus durans (4%), Enterococcus
mundtii (2%), and Enterococcus canintestini (2%) using both matrix-assisted laser
desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry and methods based on
analysis of genetic material. The isolates tested showed the most frequent
resistance to tetracycline (36.5% isolates), ciprofloxacin (36.5%), and
erythromycin (25%). Three isolates showed high level of resistance (minimal
inhibitory concentration ≥1,024 μg/mL) to vancomycin and teicoplanin, and 15% of 
the isolates demonstrated multidrug resistance. No isolate resistant to
ampicillin, linezolid, or streptomycin was found. Among resistance genes,
aac(6)-Ii (50% isolates), msrA/B (48%), msrC (42%), and tetM (31%) were
identified most frequently. All E. faecium and E. faecalis isolates were positive
for the efaAfm and efaAfs genes, respectively. Other virulence-associated genes, 
that is, gelE, cylA, asa1, esp, ace, orf1481, ptsD, and sgrA, were found in the
majority of E. faecalis and several E. faecium isolates. Multilocus sequence
typing analysis performed for selected isolates revealed three new sequence
types. The results obtained indicate that wild mammals might act as reservoirs of
resistance and virulence determinants that could be transferred between different
ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1089/mdr.2019.0052 
PMID: 31663834 

