
1. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2020 May 1;367(9). pii: fnaa071. doi:
10.1093/femsle/fnaa071.

Biodiversity and dairy traits of lactic acid bacteria from foliage of aromatic
plants before and after dehydration process monitored by a smart sensors system.

Gaglio R(1), Catania P(1), Orlando S(1), Vallone M(1), Moschetti G(1), Settanni
L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento Scienze Agrarie, Alimentari e Forestali, Università degli Studi
di Palermo, Viale delle Scienze 4, 90128 Palermo, Italy.

The main hypothesis of this work was to evaluate the presence of lactic acid
bacteria (LAB) intrinsically resistant to plant essential oils in sage (Salvia
officinalis L.) and laurel (Laurus nobilis), for future applications in
functional cheese production by addition of aromatic herbs. The effect of the
drying process on the viability of LAB was evaluated with three biomass densities
(3, 4 and 5 kg/m2). The drying densities did not affect weight loss, but
influenced the levels of LAB of sage and laurel. A total of 10 different strains 
of Enterococcus faecium, Enterococcus mundtii, Enterococcus raffinosus and
Leuconostoc mesenteroides were identified from laurel, while sage did not host
any LAB species. In particular, L. mesenteroides was the only species sensitive
to the heat treatment. Only five strains, all enterococci, were resistant to at
least one antibiotic, even though no strain showed gelatinase or haemolytic
activity. The investigation on the technological traits useful in cheese making
demonstrated that all LAB can be considered non starter LAB, because they were
characterized by a slow acidification capacity (the pH was still above 6.00 after
3 d) and a very limited autolysis (the maximum decrease of the optical density at
599 nm was barely 0.2).

© FEMS 2020.

DOI: 10.1093/femsle/fnaa071 
PMID: 32319520 

