
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Aug 24;11:2048. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.02048. eCollection 
2020.

Comparative Genome Analysis and Phenotypic Characterization of Clostridium
gasigenes CGAS001 Isolated From Chilled Vacuum-Packed Lamb Meat.

Wambui J(1), Cernela N(1), Corti S(1), Stephan R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Food Safety and Hygiene, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

Genomic data for psychrophilic bacteria causing blown pack spoilage (BPS) are
limited. This study characterizes the genome of a novel Clostridium gasigenes
strain CGAS001 isolated from meat juice sample (MJS) of vacuum-packed lamb meat
by comparing it with the type strain C. gasigenes DSM 12272 and five strains
representing four other BPS-causing Clostridium sensu stricto species. Phenotypic
characteristics of the strain, which include biochemical characteristics,
antimicrobial resistance and production of putative polyketide, have been
determined. The size of its draft genome is 4.1 Mb with 3,845 coding sequences,
28.7% GC content and 95 RNA genes that include 75 tRNAs, 17 rRNAs, and 3 ncRNAs. 
Average Nucleotide Identity (ANI) and digital DNA-DNA Hybridization (dDDH)
predict that C. gasigenes CGAS001 and DSM 12272 constitute a single species (ANI 
and dDDH = 98.3% for speciation) but two distinct subspecies (dDDH = 73.3% for
subspeciation). The genome is characterized by saccharolytic, lipolytic and
proteolytic genes as well as hemolysins and phospholipases, which are consistent 
with its phenotype. The genome also reveals the ability of C. gasigenes to
synthesize polyketides which is demonstrated by the antimicrobial activity of a
crude polyketide extract against Listeria monocytogenes and Enterococcus
devriesei. The strain is resistant to polymyxin B and streptomycin. The genetic
and phenotypic analyses suggest that CGAS001 constitutes a novel subspecies of C.
gasigenes adapted to a saprophytic lifestyle and can synthesize narrow spectrum
antimicrobial compounds.

Copyright Â© 2020 Wambui, Cernela, Corti and Stephan.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.02048 
PMCID: PMC7476324
PMID: 32983035 

