
1. Microb Cell Fact. 2020 Jul 14;19(1):142. doi: 10.1186/s12934-020-01399-w.

Expression, homology modeling and enzymatic characterization of a new β-mannanase
belonging to glycoside hydrolase family 1 from Enterobacter aerogenes B19.

Liu S(1), Cui T(2), Song Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Science and Bioengineering, South China University of
Technology, Guangzhou, 510006, China.
(2)School of Biological Science and Bioengineering, South China University of
Technology, Guangzhou, 510006, China. fetbcui@scut.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: β-mannanase can hydrolyze β-1,4 glycosidic bond of mannan by the
manner of endoglycosidase to generate mannan-oligosaccharides. Currently,
β-mannanase has been widely applied in food, medicine, textile, paper and
petroleum exploitation industries. β-mannanase is widespread in various
organisms, however, microorganisms are the main source of β-mannanases. Microbial
β-mannanases display wider pH range, temperature range and better
thermostability, acid and alkali resistance, and substrate specificity than those
from animals and plants. Therefore microbial β-mannanases are highly valued by
researchers. Recombinant bacteria constructed by gene engineering and modified by
protein engineering have been widely applied to produce β-mannanase, which shows 
more advantages than traditional microbial fermentation in various aspects.
RESULTS: A β-mannanase gene (Man1E), which encoded 731 amino acid residues, was
cloned from Enterobacter aerogenes. Man1E was classified as Glycoside Hydrolase
family 1. The bSiteFinder prediction showed that there were eight essential
residues in the catalytic center of Man1E as Trp166, Trp168, Asn229, Glu230,
Tyr281, Glu309, Trp341 and Lys374. The catalytic module and carbohydrate binding 
module (CBM) of Man1E were homologously modeled. Superposition analysis and
molecular docking revealed the residues located in the catalytic module of Man1E 
and the CBM of Man1E. The recombinant enzyme was successfully expressed,
purified, and detected about 82.5 kDa by SDS-PAGE. The optimal reaction condition
was 55 °C and pH 6.5. The enzyme exhibited high stability below 60 °C, and in the
range of pH 3.5-8.5. The β-mannanase activity was activated by low concentration 
of Co2+, Mn2+, Zn2+, Ba2+ and Ca2+. Man1E showed the highest affinity for Locust 
bean gum (LBG). The Km and Vmax values for LBG were 3.09 ± 0.16 mg/mL and
909.10 ± 3.85 μmol/(mL min), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: A new type of β-mannanase with high activity from E. aerogenes is
heterologously expressed and characterized. The enzyme belongs to an unreported
β-mannanase family (CH1 family). It displays good pH and temperature features and
excellent catalysis capacity for LBG and KGM. This study lays the foundation for 
future application and molecular modification to improve its catalytic efficiency
and substrate specificity.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-020-01399-w 
PMCID: PMC7362650
PMID: 32665004 

