
1. Electrochim Acta. 2020 Apr 1;338:135864. doi: 10.1016/j.electacta.2020.135864.

Electrochemical cell lysis of gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria: DNA
extraction from environmental water samples.

Wang S(1), Zhu Y(1), Yang Y(1), Li J(1), Hoffmann MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Linde+Robinson Laboratories, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 
91125, USA.

Cell lysis is an essential step for the nucleic acid-based surveillance of
bacteriological water quality. Recently, electrochemical cell lysis (ECL), which 
is based on the local generation of hydroxide at a cathode surface, has been
reported to be a rapid and reagent-free method for cell lysis. Herein, we
describe the development of a milliliter-output ECL device and its performance
characterization with respect to the DNA extraction efficiency for gram-negative 
bacteria (Escherichia coli and Salmonella Typhi) and gram-positive bacteria
(Enterococcus durans and Bacillus subtilis). Both gram-negative and gram-positive
bacteria were successfully lysed within a short but optimal duration of 1 min at 
a low voltage of ∼5 V. The ECL method described herein, is demonstrated to be
applicable to various environmental water sample types, including pond water,
treated wastewater, and untreated wastewater with DNA extraction efficiencies
similar to a commercial DNA extraction kit. The ECL system outperformed
homogeneous chemical lysis in terms of reaction times and DNA extraction
efficiencies, due in part to the high pH generated at the cathode surface, which 
was predicted by simulations of the hydroxide transport in the cathodic chamber. 
Our work indicates that the ECL method for DNA extraction is rapid, simplified
and low-cost with no need for complex instrumentation. It has demonstrable
potential as a prelude to PCR analyses of waterborne bacteria in the field,
especially for the gram-negative ones.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.electacta.2020.135864 
PMCID: PMC7063685
PMID: 32255836 

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest to declare.

