
1. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Jan 28;30(1):118-126. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1906.06010.

Effect of Silicate and Phosphate Solubilizing Rhizobacterium Enterobacter
ludwigii GAK2 on Oryza sativa L. under Cadmium Stress.

Adhikari A(1), Lee KE(1), Khan MA(1), Kang SM(1), Adhikari B(1), Imran M(1), Jan 
R(1), Kim KM(1), Lee IJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Applied Biosciences, Kyungpook National University, Daegu 41566,
Republic of Korea.

Silicon and phosphorus are elements that are beneficial for plant growth. Despite
the abundant availability of silicate and phosphate in the Earth's crust, crop
nutritional requirements for silicon and phosphorus are normally met through the 
application of fertilizer. However, fertilizers are one of the major causes of
heavy metal pollution. In our study, we aimed to assess silicate and phosphate
solubilization by the bacteria Enterobacter ludwigii GAK2, in the presence and
absence of phosphate [Ca3(PO4)2] or silicate (Mg2O8Si3), to counteract cadmium
stress in rice (Oryza sativa L). Our results showed that the GAK2-treated rice
plants, grown in soil amended with phosphate [Ca3(PO4)2] or silicate (Mg2O8Si3), 
had significantly reduced cadmium content, and enhanced plant growth promoting
characteristics including fresh shoot and root weight, plant height, and
chlorophyll content. These plants showed significant downregulation of the
cadmium transporter gene, OsHMA2, and upregulation of the silicon carrier gene,
OsLsi1. Moreover, jasmonic acid levels were significantly reduced in the
GAK2-inoculated plants, and this was further supported by the downregulation of
the jasmonic acid related gene, OsJAZ1. These results indicate that Enterobacter 
ludwigii GAK2 can be used as a silicon and phosphorus bio-fertilizer, which
solubilizes insoluble silicate and phosphate, and mitigates heavy metal toxicity 
in crops.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1906.06010 
PMID: 31650772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

