
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Jul 1;10(1):10790. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-67840-7.

Bacterial associated urinary tract infection, risk factors, and drug
susceptibility profile among adult people living with HIV at Haswassa University 
Comprehensive Specialized Hospital, Hawassa, Southern Esthiopia.

Tessema NN(1), Ali MM(2), Zenebe MH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Hawassa University Compressive Specialized Hospital, Awassa, Ethiopia.
(2)School of Medical Laboratory Science, Hawassa University College of Medicine
and Health Sciences, Awassa, Ethiopia. ysnmss@yahoo.com.
(3)School of Medical Laboratory Science, Hawassa University College of Medicine
and Health Sciences, Awassa, Ethiopia.

People living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) are more likely to develop 
urinary tract infections (UTI) due to the suppression of their immunity. The aim 
of this study was to determine the prevalence, risk factors of UTI, and drug
susceptibility pattern of bacteria isolated among peoples infected with HIV. A
hospital-based cross-sectional study was conducted among 224 HIV positive
individuals attending Hawassa University Comprehensive Specialized Hospital
(HUCSH) from September 17 to November 16, 2018. Midstream urine was collected
from all study participants and inoculated on to Blood and MacConkey agar.
Bacterial isolates were characterized by Gram stain and standard biochemical
tests. Kirby-Bauer method was used for antimicrobial susceptibility testing.
Sociodemographic and clinical data were collected by a semi-structured
questionnaire. Data were analyzed using SPSS version 20. A bivariate and a
multivariable regression model were employed to determine the association between
dependent and independent variables. From the total 224 study participants, 23
(10.3%) (95% CI 6.7-14.7) had culture-confirmed UTIs. The distributions of the
bacteria were as follows: Escherichia coli 16 (69.6%), Staphylococcus aureus 2
(8.7%), Klebsiella pneumoniae 2 (8.7%), Enterobacter aerogenes 2 (8.7%) and
Pseudomonas species 1 (4.3%). UTI prevalence was also high among study
participants with a previous history of UTI and CD4+ count < 200/mm3. Female
study participants were about five times more likely to have UTI (AOR 5.3, 95% CI
1.5-19.2). Ninety-three percent of bacteria isolated were susceptible to
nitrofurantoin, ceftriaxone, and gentamycin; 87.5% were susceptible to meropenem 
and norfloxacin; whereas 93.8%, 68.8%, and 62.5% of isolates were resistant to
ampicillin, tetracycline, and cotrimoxazole respectively. Multidrug resistance
(MDR) was seen in 18 (78.3%) of bacterial isolates.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-67840-7 
PMCID: PMC7330024
PMID: 32612139 

