
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Jun 23;149:104276. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104276. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Dietary infection of Enterobacter ludwigii causes fat accumulation and resulted
in the diabetes-like condition in Drosophila melanogaster.

Priyadarsini S(1), Mukherjee S(1), Samikshya SN(1), Bhanja A(1), Paikra SK(1),
Nayak N(1), Mishra M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neural Developmental Biology Lab, Department of Life Science, NIT Rourkela,
Rourkela, Odisha, 769008, India.
(2)Neural Developmental Biology Lab, Department of Life Science, NIT Rourkela,
Rourkela, Odisha, 769008, India. Electronic address: mishramo@nitrkl.ac.in.

Bacteria as a foreign pathogen can alter the physiology and metabolism of the
host. Many of the teeth infecting bacteria known to be associated with obesity
and diabetes in various organisms. The current study aims to check the effect of 
teeth infecting bacteria Enterobacter ludwigii on model organism Drosophila
melanogaster. To check the effect, various concentrations of E. ludwigii on fly
physiology the bacteria were added to the fly food. Flies were allowed to grow
and colonise in infected food. The offsprings were checked for the accumulation
of lipid and fat. With the increase of bacteria within the gut the amount of
lipid and fat increases. Alongwith the fat various biochemical parameters like
glucose, trehalose, protein and triglyceride level found to be altered. Within
the fly gut various metals, which have a role in the metabolism is altered.
However, during colonisation within the gut, the morphology of the bacteria
remains unaltered. In the adult fly, all the biochemical parameters like glucose,
trehalose, protein and triglyceride level increased. The expression level of Dilp
is upregulated. Altogether, the current study reports an infection of E. ludwigii
causes the accumulation of fat and alters glucose metabolism in Drosophila
melanogaster.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104276 
PMID: 32590093 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

