
1. Infect Drug Resist. 2020 Aug 24;13:2963-2970. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S261510.
eCollection 2020.

A Clinical Study on the Use of Intraventricular Polymyxin B Supplemented by
Continuous External Ventricular Drainage in the Treatment of Drug-Resistant
Gram-Negative Bacilli Intracranial Infection.

Chen H(1), Guo X(1), Xie D(1), Dong X(1), Niu J(1), Chen G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery for Cerebrospinal Fluid Diseases, Aviation General 
Hospital of China Medical University, Beijing 100012, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Aviation General Hospital of China Medical
University, Beijing 100012, People's Republic of China.

Purpose: To investigate the clinical effect of ventricular polymyxin B
supplemented by continuous external ventricular drainage in the treatment of
intracranial infection with multidrug-resistant (MDR) or extensively
drug-resistant (XDR) Gram-negative (G-) bacilli following neurosurgery.
Patients and Methods: A retrospective analysis was performed on 28 patients who
had G-bacilli intracranial infection following neurosurgery in our department
between January 2017 and December 2019. The patients were treated with
intraventricular polymyxin B supplemented by continuous external ventricular
drainage. The clinical characteristics, treatment process,
cerebrospinal-fluid-related indicators, results and prognosis were analysed.
Results: All of 28 patients developed an infection subsequent to neurosurgery,
and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cultures demonstrated MDR/XDR G- bacilli, including
Acinetobacter baumannii in 14 cases, Klebsiella pneumoniae in 9 cases,
Pseudomonas aeruginosa in 3 cases, and Enterobacter cloacae in 2 cases. The
ventricular drainage tube remained unobstructed in all patients during treatment,
and intraventricular polymyxin B combined with intravenous antibiotics were
administered each day. The duration of treatment with intraventricular polymyxin 
B was 14.96±4.28 days, and the time required to obtain a negative CSF culture was
8.23±4.02 days. The bacterial clearance rate from cerebrospinal fluid was 92.9%
(26/28), and the clinical cure rate was 82.1% (23/28). Among them, 18 patients
underwent ventriculoperitoneal shunt insertion for hydrocephalus 82.5
(59.5,114.75) days after the infection was cured, and the mortality rate was
17.6% (5/28). There was no significant change in patient blood creatinine levels 
before and after treatment. Cured patients were followed up for 4 months to 3
years, and no recurrences were observed.
Conclusion: Treatment of intracranial infection with MDR/XDR G- bacilli using
early intraventricular polymyxin B supplemented by continuous external
ventricular drainage treatment may be a safe and effective treatment strategy.

© 2020 Chen et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S261510 
PMCID: PMC7457587
PMID: 32904679 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in
this work.

