
1. Biomed Res Int. 2019 Nov 29;2019:8051438. doi: 10.1155/2019/8051438. eCollection 
2019.

Enterococci Isolated from Trout in the Bukovec Water Reservoir and Čierny Váh
River in Slovakia and Their Safety Aspect.

Lauková A(1), Kubašová I(1), Bino E(1), Kandričáková A(1), Strompfová V(1),
Žitňan R(2), Pogány Simonová M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Animal Physiology, Centre of Biosciences of the Slovak Academy of
Sciences, Laboratory of Animal Microbiology, Šoltésovej 4-6, 040 01 Košice,
Slovakia.
(2)National Agricultural and Food Centre, Research Institute for Animal
Production, Hlohovecká 2, 951 41 Nitra-Lužianky, Košice, Slovakia.

The aim of this study was to investigate enterococci as lactic acid bacteria and 
as part of Firmicutes phylum. We focused on the virulence factor, biofilm
formation, and antibiotic resistance and also on lactic acid production and
enterocin gene detection. Intestinal samples were taken from 50 healthy trout (3 
Salmo trutta and 47 Salmo gairdneri) collected in April 2007, 2010, and 2015 from
different locations at the Bukovec water reservoir and the Čierny Váh River in
Slovakia. Twenty pure colonies were identified using the matrix-assisted laser
desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry identification system
based on protein fingerprints, and then seven identified strains were also
phenotyped. Based on the identification methods used, the identified enterococci 
(7) belong taxonomically to four different enterococcal species: Enterococcus
durans, E. faecium, E. mundtii, and E. thailandicus. They were hemolysis, DNase, 
and gelatinase negative with acceptable enzymatic activity. They did not form
biofilm and were mostly susceptible to antibiotics. All strains produced lactic
acid amounting to 1.78 ± 0.33 mmol/l on average and possessed the gene for
enterocin A production. This is the first study reporting more detailed
properties of enterococci from trout in Slovakian wild water sources, and it
produces new possibilities for studying microbiota in trout.

Copyright © 2019 Andrea Lauková et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2019/8051438 
PMCID: PMC6925716
PMID: 31886252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts
of interest regarding the publication of this paper.

