
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Sep 24. pii: S0022-0302(20)30756-6. doi:
10.3168/jds.2020-18871. [Epub ahead of print]

Characterization and application of antimicrobials produced by Enterococcus
faecium S6 isolated from raw camel milk.

Rahmeh R(1), Akbar A(2), Alonaizi T(2), Kishk M(2), Shajan A(2), Akbar B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology Program, Environment and Life Sciences Research Center, Kuwait
Institute for Scientific Research, PO Box 24885 Safat, 13109, Kuwait. Electronic 
address: rrahmeh@kisr.edu.kw.
(2)Biotechnology Program, Environment and Life Sciences Research Center, Kuwait
Institute for Scientific Research, PO Box 24885 Safat, 13109, Kuwait.

The emergence of antimicrobial resistance in the food chain and the consumer's
demand for safe food without chemical preservatives have generated much interest 
in natural antimicrobials. Thus, our main goal was to study the mode of action of
the crude extract, the enterocins, and the organic acid produced by a
bacteriocinogenic Enterococcus faecium strain S6 previously isolated from raw
camel milk. Then, we aimed to evaluate their potential application in a food
system. These antimicrobials exhibited antimicrobial activity against Listeria
monocytogenes, Salmonella enterica, and Escherichia coli. The enterocins were
synthesized as primary metabolites beginning at the lag phase, with optimal
production at the exponential and stationary phases. The antimicrobials had a
direct effect in extending the lag phase of L. monocytogenes, along with a
significant inhibitory activity. The organic acid, in particular, inhibited both 
L. monocytogenes and S. enterica by inducing a total lysis and damage of the cell
wall. The enterocins acted on disrupting the cell wall with pore formation,
leading to cell death. Moreover, the crude extract revealed a combined inhibitory
activity between enterocins and organic acid. Furthermore, the antimicrobials
showed promising results through inhibiting L. monocytogenes cells in milk
samples up to 1 wk at 4°C.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-18871 
PMID: 32981738 

