
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Sep 23. doi: 10.1007/s00253-020-10896-2. [Epub
ahead of print]

Protective effects of Clostridium butyricum against oxidative stress induced by
food processing and lipid-derived aldehydes in Caco-2 cells.

Li J(1), Shen H(1), Zhao Z(1), Cao D(1), Zeng M(1), Cai H(1), Wei J(1), Fan Q(1),
Deng J(1), Ming F(1), Ma M(1), Liang Q(1), Jia J(1), Zhang S(1), Zhang L(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Protein Function and Regulation in
Agricultural Organisms, College of Life Sciences, South China Agricultural
University, Guangzhou, 510642, Guangdong, China.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Protein Function and Regulation in
Agricultural Organisms, College of Life Sciences, South China Agricultural
University, Guangzhou, 510642, Guangdong, China. lhzhang@scau.edu.cn.
(3)Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern Agriculture, Guangzhou, 510642,
Guangdong, China. lhzhang@scau.edu.cn.

The human body is almost always facing the oxidative stress caused by foodborne
aldehydes such as glyoxal (GO) and methylglyoxal (MGO), 4-hydroxyhexenal (HHE),
and 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE). When these aldehydes build up, they can cause a range
of harm. However, a probiotic, Clostridium butyricum, can increase nuclear factor
erythroid-2 related factor 2 (Nrf2) and may have the potential to relieve
oxidative stress. If C. butyricum is indeed resistant to aldehydes, the
advantages (accessibility, convenience, and safety) will be of great significance
compared with drugs. Unfortunately, whether C. butyricum can play a role in
alleviating toxic effects of foodborne aldehydes in the intestine (the first line
of defense against food-derived toxin) was unclear. To investigate these, we
measured the viability, ROS, autophagy, and inflammatory cytokine expression of
Caco-2 which were co-cultured with C. butyricum and stimulated by the four
aldehydes via Nrf2 pathway (Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus faecium as
controls). Then, we explored the link among C. butyricum, NLRP6, and Nrf2
signaling pathways when facing the stimuli. In the present study, we demonstrated
that Clostridium butyricum relieved the oxidative stress induced by the aldehydes
in Caco-2. Most interestingly, we found a "complementary" relationship between
NLRP6 and Nrf2 in C. butyricum treatment under aldehyde stress. Our research not 
only makes a contribution to the popularization of C. butyricum as a
probiotic-rich food instead of medicines but also sheds new light on the
application of subsequent microecological formulation of C. butyricum. KEY
POINTS: • The adverse effects are caused in a dose-dependent manner by foodborne 
aldehydes. • Clostridium butyricum can significantly ameliorate oxidative stress.
• There is a "complementary" relationship between the NLRP6 and Nrf2 signaling
pathways. • Using Clostridium butyricum foods to alleviate oxidative stress shows
great prospects.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10896-2 
PMID: 32965561 

