
1. Microbiol Res. 2020 Aug;237:126469. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126469. Epub 2020 
Mar 19.

Harnessing chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) seed endophytes for enhancing plant
growth attributes and bio-controlling against Fusarium sp.

Mukherjee A(1), Singh BK(2), Verma JP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Environment and Sustainable Development, Banaras Hindu
University, Varanasi, 221005, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)Hawkesbury Institute of the Environment, Western Sydney University, Sydney,
Australia; Global Centre for Land-Based Innovation, Western Sydney University,
Sydney, Australia.
(3)Institute of Environment and Sustainable Development, Banaras Hindu
University, Varanasi, 221005, Uttar Pradesh, India. Electronic address:
jpv.iesd@bhu.ac.in.

A seed microbiome is likely to have important impacts on plant fitness and
productivity but functional potentials of seed microbiome remain poorly
understood. It is also suggested that bio-inoculants developed from or compatible
with seed microbiome are more likely to produce desired outcomes of sustainable
increase in agriculture productivity but few empirical evidences are available.
The aim of this study was to identify culturable endophytes of the germinating
and dry seeds of chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.), and their functional attributes. 
We isolated 29 bacterial strains from chickpea seeds (8 strains from dry and 21
strains from germinating seeds). Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rDNA showed
that the seed endophytic bacteria belong to Enterobacter sp., Bacillus sp.,
Pseudomonas sp., Staphylococcus sp., Pantoea sp. and Mixta sp. Isolates produced 
significant amount of Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) (Enterobacter hormaechei
BHUJPCS-15; 58.91 μg/ml), solubilised phosphate (Bacillus subtilis BHUJPCS-24;
999.85 μg/ml) and potassium, ammonia (Bacillus subtilis BHUJPCS-12; 148.73
μg/ml), and also inhibited the growth of chickpea pathogen (Pseudomonas
aeruginosa BHUJPCS-7 against Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. ciceris) under laboratory
conditions. Several seed endophytes induced significant increase in plant growth 
and increased tolerance of chickpea plants to the pathogen (Fusarium oxysporum
f.sp. ciceris) when tested in vitro. Re-introduction of these isolates, resulted 
in significant increase in plant length, biomass and chlorophyll contents and
bio-controlling activity against Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. ciceris. These results 
provide a direct evidence for the presence of beneficial seed microbiome and
suggest these isolates could be further developed into potential bio-inoculants
for improving diseases management and sustainable increase in agriculture
productivity.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126469 
PMID: 32251977 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no conflict of interest.

