
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Mar 16;10(1):4774. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-61245-2.

Enterococcus durans with mosquito larvicidal toxicity against Culex
quinquefasciatus, elucidated using a Proteomic and Metabolomic approach.

Colvin D(1), Dhuri V(1), Verma H(2), Lokhande R(2), Kale A(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemical Sciences, UM-DAE Centre for Excellence in Basic Sciences,
University of Mumbai, Kalina, Santacruz -East, Mumbai, 400098, India.
(2)Jaipur National University, Agra - Jaipur Rd, Near New RTO Office, Jagatpura, 
Jaipur, Rajasthan, 302017, India.
(3)School of Chemical Sciences, UM-DAE Centre for Excellence in Basic Sciences,
University of Mumbai, Kalina, Santacruz -East, Mumbai, 400098, India.
avinash.kale@cbs.ac.in.

Various bacteria from the Bacillus species have been used as pesticides against
mosquito larvae for more than a decade. The prolonged use of these bacterial
species by little alteration within their genome, using various permutations and 
combinations of mosquito-cidal toxins, has proven unsuccessful in controlling the
mosquito population. In our current study we report Enterococcus sp. to be
exhibiting similar kind of mosquito-cidal toxins alike those which are present in
the mainly used Bacillus strains. Three Enterococcus species were isolated on a
rich media selective for gram- positive bacteria from the mid-gut of dead
mosquito larvae which were collected from the wild locations within and around
the city of Mumbai, India. Their surface morphologies were studied by Scanning
Electron Microscopy (SEM) and their identity was confirmed using the standard 16S
rRNA sequencing method. Upon performing several repetitive toxicity assays of
these three strains on the laboratory cultured third instar stage of Culex
quinquefasciatus larvae, showed differential toxicities from a minimum of 20%
(LC50: 59.6 CFU/ml), intermediate 35% (LC50: 48.4 CFU/ml) and a maximum of 60%
(LC50: 35.7 CFU/ml). To justify the data in all the three similar strains of
Enterococcus durans, we followed the differential proteomics using LCMS 6540 UHD 
Accurate Mass QTOF and differential metabolomics approach using both LCMS 6540
UHD Accurate Mass QTOF and 1H-NMR. The presence and significance of the obtained 
toxins were studied to elucidate the plausible reason for showing differential
toxicities. This work helped in identifying Enterococcus durans as a new,
potential and alternative strain to the Bacillus species in terms of mosquito
larvicidal toxicity against Culex quinquefasciatus.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-61245-2 
PMCID: PMC7075886
PMID: 32179781 

