
1. Ann Transl Med. 2020 Feb;8(4):100. doi: 10.21037/atm.2019.12.115.

Research of the potential biomarkers in vaginal microbiome for persistent
high-risk human papillomavirus infection.

Chao X(1), Sun T(1), Wang S(1), Tan X(1), Fan Q(1), Shi H(1), Zhu L(1), Lang
J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital
(PUMCH), Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences (CAMS) & Peking Union Medical
College, Beijing 100730, China.

Background: Vaginal dysbiosis may paly role in increased risk of human
papillomavirus (HPV) infection. This study aims to explore potential vaginal
microbiome biomarkers, to predict persistent high-risk HPV (HR-HPV) infection and
cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 2+, and to find novel treatment targets 
for HPV infection.
Methods: A total of 329 women aged 20-69 were enrolled in this study, including
59 with cervical persistent HPV infection irrespective of cytology status (group 
A), 139 with incident HPV infection (group B), and 131 without HPV infection
(group C). Vaginal microbiome composition was determined by sequencing of
barcoded 16S rDNA gene fragments (V4) on Illumina HiSeq2500.
Results: In genus level, the relative abundance of Prevotella, Porphyromonas and 
Enterococcus were significantly the highest in group A, while Bacteroides was the
lowest in group A. In species level, we found the relative abundance of
Prevotella bivia, Enterococcus durans and Porphyromonas uenonis were the highest 
in group A while Lactobacillus iners was significantly under-represented in group
A than the other two, and Prevotella disiens was over-represented in group C than
the other two groups.
Conclusions: A predominance of Prevotella bivia, Enterococcus durans and
Porphyromonas uenonis with a concomitant paucity of Lactobacillus iners and
Prevotella disiens may relate to HPV persistent infection. Furthermore, the
relative abundance of Prevotella bivia being over 0.05554% with Prevotella
disiens being under 0.02196% may be a good predictor for appearance CIN2+ for
those diagnosed with the other 12 types of HR-HPV persistent infection but normal
ThinPrep cytology test (TCT) testing. The exact molecular mechanism of the
vaginal microbiome in the course of persistent HR-HPV infection and cervical
neoplasia should be further explored. Future research should include intervention
of vaginal microbiome composition to reverse the course of HR-HPV infection and
the natural history of cervical neoplasia.

2020 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/atm.2019.12.115 
PMCID: PMC7049000
PMID: 32175393 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have no
conflicts of interest to declare.

