
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jun 24;8(6). pii: E948. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8060948.

Plant Growth Enhancement using Rhizospheric Halotolerant Phosphate Solubilizing
Bacterium Bacillus licheniformis QA1 and Enterobacter asburiae QF11 Isolated from
Chenopodium quinoa Willd.

Mahdi I(1)(2), Fahsi N(1)(3), Hafidi M(2)(4), Allaoui A(4)(5), Biskri L(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Application Interface Center (CIAM), Mohammed VI Polytechnic
University (UM6P), 43150 Benguérir, Morocco.
(2)Laboratory of Microbial Biotechnologies, Agrosciences and Environment
(BioMAgE), Faculty of Sciences Semlalia, Cadi Ayyad University, 40000 Marrakesh, 
Morocco.
(3)Laboratory of Genetic, Neuroendocrinology and Biotechnology, Faculty of
Sciences, Ibn Tofail University, 14000 Kénitra, Morocco.
(4)Microbiome Team and African genome center (AGC), AgrobioSciences department
(AgBS), Mohammed VI Polytechnic University (UM6P), 43150 Benguérir, Morocco.
(5)Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology, CIPEM (Coalition Center, for Innovation,
and Prevention of Epidemies in Morocco) Mohammed VI Polytechnic University
(UM6P), 43150 Benguérir, Morocco.

Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria represent a promising solution to enhancing 
agricultural productivity. Here, we screened phosphate solubilizing bacteria from
the rhizospheric soil of Chenopodium quinoa Willd and assessed their plant-growth
promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) properties including production of indole-3-acetic
acid (IAA), siderophores, hydrogen cyanide (HCN), ammonia and extracellular
enzymes. We also investigated their tolerance to salt stress and their capacity
to form biofilms. Two isolated strains, named QA1 and QF11, solubilized phosphate
up to 346 mg/L, produced IAA up to 795.31 µg/mL, and tolerated up to 2 M NaCl in 
vitro. 16S rRNA and Cpn60 gene sequencing revealed that QA1 and QF11 belong to
the genus Bacillus licheniformis and Enterobacter asburiae, respectively. In
vivo, early plant growth potential showed that quinoa seeds inoculated either
with QA1 or QF11 displayed higher germination rates and increased seedling
growth. Under saline irrigation conditions, QA1 enhanced plant
development/growth. Inoculation with QA1 increased leaf chlorophyll content
index, enhanced P and K+ uptake and decreased plant Na+ uptake. Likewise, plants 
inoculated with QF11 strain accumulated more K+ and had reduced Na+ content.
Collectively, our findings support the use of QA1 and QF11 as potential
biofertilizers.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8060948 
PMCID: PMC7356859
PMID: 32599701 

