
1. J Food Prot. 2020 Sep 25. doi: 10.4315/JFP-20-167. [Epub ahead of print]

Evaluation of Hot-air Drying to Inactivate Salmonella spp. and Enterococcus
faecium on Apple Pieces.

Grasso-Kelley E(1), Liu X(2), Halik L(2), Douglas B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Illinois Institute of Technology Assistant Professor Department of Food
Science and Nutrition / Institute for Food Safety and Health 6502 S. Archer Road 
UNITED STATES Bedford Park IL 60501 7085638824.
(2)Illinois Institute of Technology, Department of Food Science and Nutrition /
Institute for Food Safety and Health.
(3)Tree Top, Inc.

Hot-air drying processes are used to provide specific quality attributes to
products, such as dehydrated apple pieces. To comply with the U. S. Food and Drug
Administration Food Safety Modernization Act, there is a need to understand
microbial lethality during these processes. The objective of this study was to
determine the level of inactivation provided by hot-air drying on a Salmonella
cocktail inoculated onto apple cubes and to evaluate the performance of
Enterococcus faecium as a surrogate. A Salmonella cocktail ( S. Agona, S.
Tennessee, S. Montevideo, S. Mbandaka and S. Reading) and E. faecium were
individually inoculated onto cored, peeled Gala apple cubes at 9.2 ± 0.3 and 8.8 
± 0.1 log CFU/sample, respectively . Apple cubes were dried at 104°C or 135°C in 
~1.5 kg batches using a hot-air dryer with a vertically directed heat source and 
without mixing. Three subsamples, consisting of 4 inoculated cubes, were
enumerated at each time point (n ≥ 5) from multiple product bed depths. Water
activity decreased throughout the duration of the study with samples at 135°C
drying faster than 104°C. Samples at the bottom bed depth, closer to the heat
source, dried faster than those at the higher bed depth, regardless of
temperature. Significant microbial inactivation was not seen immediately. It took
>10 min at the bottom bed depth or > 40 min of drying at the top bed depth,
regardless of temperature (p < 0.05).  By the end of drying average Salmonella
inactivation of greater than 5 log CFU/sample was achieved. At temperature
conditions evaluated, E. faecium inactivation was slower than Salmonella ,
indicating that it would likely serve as a good surrogate for in-plant validation
studies. Case hardening did not inhibit microbial inactivation in the conditions 
tested. Hot-air drying under the conditions evaluated may provide a preventive
control in the production of dehydrated products, such as apples.

DOI: 10.4315/JFP-20-167 
PMID: 32977340 

