
1. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2020 May 14. doi: 10.1007/s12602-020-09658-3.
[Epub ahead of print]

Probiotic Potential and Wide-spectrum Antimicrobial Activity of Lactic Acid
Bacteria Isolated from Infant Feces.

Wang X(1), Wang W(2), Lv H(3), Zhang H(1)(4), Liu Y(1), Zhang M(1), Wang Y(1),
Tan Z(5).

Author information: 
(1)Henan Key Laboratory of Ion-Beam Bioengineering, School of Agricultural
Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China.
(2)The Third Affiliated Hospital Xinxiang Medical University, Xinxiang, China.
(3)School of Food Science and Technology, Henan University of Technology,
Zhengzhou, China.
(4)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Henan University of Animal
Husbandry and Economy, Zhengzhou, China.
(5)Henan Key Laboratory of Ion-Beam Bioengineering, School of Agricultural
Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China. tzhongfang@zzu.edu.cn.

In this study, we aimed to characterize lactic acid bacteria strains derived from
infants' feces, to evaluate the probiotic potential and explore the wide-spectrum
antimicrobial activity. Of 800 isolates, 20 inhibited the growth of
enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli K88 and Salmonella enterica ATCC 13076. On the
basis of 16S rRNA sequence analysis, the 20 isolates were assigned to
Lactobacillus casei (7), Lactobacillus paracasei (2), Lactobacillus plantarum
(4), Lactobacillus rhamnosus (2), Enterococcus avium (3), Enterococcus faecium
(1), and Enterococcus lactis (1) species. In addition, 12 strains with high
antimicrobial activity were investigated for the presence of probiotic properties
such as physiological-biochemical characteristics, antimicrobial susceptibility, 
hemolytic activity, hydrophobicity, and aggregation activity. Wide-spectrum
antimicrobial activity analysis revealed that approximately all tested strains
inhibited the ten pathogens, and four strains (ZX221, ZX633, ZX3131, and ZX3875) 
had good probiotic properties and survived after being exposed to simulated
gastrointestinal tract conditions. Moreover, we investigated the influence of pH 
on the wide-spectrum antimicrobial activity and found that four strains inhibited
most pathogens at pH 4.5 and pH 5, whereas only ZX633 had an inhibitory effect on
Bacillus subtilis ATCC 6633 and Micrococcus luteus ATCC 4698 at pH 5.5. Overall, 
Lact. casei ZX633 had wide-spectrum antimicrobial activity and could be
considered a potential probiotic.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-020-09658-3 
PMID: 32405962 

