
1. Waste Manag. 2020 Oct;116:40-48. doi: 10.1016/j.wasman.2020.07.049. Epub 2020 Aug
9.

Sustainable biofuels and bioplastic production from the organic fraction of
municipal solid waste.

Ebrahimian F(1), Karimi K(2), Kumar R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Isfahan University of Technology, Isfahan 
84156-83111, Iran.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Isfahan University of Technology, Isfahan 
84156-83111, Iran; Industrial Biotechnology Group, Research Institute for
Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Isfahan University of Technology, Isfahan
84156-83111, Iran.
(3)Center of Environmental and Research Technology (CE-CERT), Bourns College of
Engineering, University of California, Riverside, CA 92507, USA. Electronic
address: rkumar@cert.ucr.edu.

Municipal solid waste is an environmental threat worldwide; however, the organic 
fraction of municipal solid waste (OF-MSW) has a great potential for the
generation of fuels and high-value products. In the current study, OF-MSW was
utilized for the production of ethanol, hydrogen, as well as 2,3-butanediol, an
octane booster, by using Enterobacter aerogenes. Furthermore, a promising
alternative to non-biodegradable petrochemical-based polymers,
polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs), was produced. The OF-MSW was first pretreated by an
acetic acid catalyzed ethanol organosolv pretreatment at 120 and 160 °C followed 
by enzymatic hydrolysis of the residual solids. The residual unhydrolyzed solids 
resulting from enzymatic hydrolysis were further anaerobically digested for
methane production. The enzymatic hydrolysis of the solids prepared at 120 °C for
60 min led to the production of hydrolysate with the highest glucose production
yield of 498.5 g/kg dry untreated OF-MSW, which was fermented to 139.1 g
2,3-butanediol, 98.3 g ethanol, 28.6 g acetic acid, 71.4 L biohydrogen, and 40 g 
PHAs. Moreover, 23.1 L biomethane was produced through the anaerobic digestion of
the enzymatic hydrolysis residue solids. Thus, appreciable amounts of energy
(8236.9 kJ) and an eco-friendly bioplastic were produced by the valorization of
carbon sources available in OF-MSW.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wasman.2020.07.049 
PMID: 32784120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

