
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Aug 21;8(9). pii: E1274. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091274.

Processing Wastewaters from Spanish-Style cv. Chalkidiki Green Olives: A
Potential Source of Enterococcus Casseliflavus and Hydroxytyrosol.

Papadaki E(1), Botsaris G(2), Athanasiadi E(1), Mantzouridou FT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Food Chemistry and Technology, Department of Chemistry, Faculty 
of Sciences, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)Department of Agricultural Sciences, Biotechnology and Food Science, Faculty
of Geotechnical Sciences and Environmental Management Cyprus University of
Technology, 50329 Limassol, Cyprus.

The purpose of this study was to examine the isolation of indigenous lactic acid 
bacteria (LAB) with functional properties from Spanish-style cv. Chalkidiki green
olive processing wastewaters (GOW). Predominant indigenous LAB could serve as
bioaugmentation agents/starter culture for table olives production and protected 
designation of origin specification. Spontaneous fermentation of fresh GOW over
different temperatures (15 째C to 50 째C) and pH values (3.5 to 11.5) for 30 d
enabled the isolation/molecular identification of the lactic acid bacterium
Enterococcus casseliflavus and the plant-associated bacterium Bacillus
amyloliquefaciens subsp. plantarum. E. casseliflavus was found to reduce chemical
oxygen demand by 72%. Its resistance to extreme pH values, salinity, and
temperature was successfully modeled and the minimum inhibitory concentration of 
oleuropein against the bacterial growth was determined (0.9 g/L). Furthermore,
hydroxytyrosol content was doubled (up to 553 mg/L) after GOW spontaneous
fermentation under acidic conditions at 15 째C to 30 째C for 120 d, creating an
additional source of input. These results highlight the significance and
potential of E. casseliflavus in Spanish-style cv. Chalkidiki green olive
processing.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091274 
PMID: 32825632 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

