
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Aug;89:103430. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103430. Epub 2020 Jan 
14.

Proteomic study of Enterococcus durans LAB18S growing on prebiotic
oligosaccharides.

Comerlato CB(1), Ritter AC(1), Miyamoto KN(1), Brandelli A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Bioquímica e Microbiologia Aplicada, Instituto de Ciência e
Tecnologia de Alimentos, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, 91501-970,
Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Bioquímica e Microbiologia Aplicada, Instituto de Ciência e
Tecnologia de Alimentos, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, 91501-970,
Porto Alegre, Brazil. Electronic address: abrand@ufrgs.br.

This study evaluates the influence of prebiotic carbohydrates, namely
fructooligosaccharides (FOS) and galactooligosaccharides (GOS), on the protein
expression of Enterococcus durans LAB18S. The strain was cultivated in 10 g L-1
FOS, GOS or glucose (control) and cellular proteins were extracted for mass
spectrometry analysis. A total of 771 proteins were identified and 135 E. durans 
proteins were validated by the Scaffold algorithm. The proteins were functionally
categorized according to Gene Ontology terms. Both FOS and GOS were used as
carbon source by E. durans LAB18S, upregulating the production of proteins that
may be associated with intestinal mucosa adhesion, carbohydrate and nitrogen
metabolism, and stress response. Cells grown with GOS showed an increased
expression of the cell division protein divIVA, EF-Tu and glyceraldehyde
3-phosphate dehydrogenase that have been associated with epithelial cell
adhesion. The use of FOS stimulated the production of proteins related to amino
acid metabolism and energy conversion, and ClpX protein, which plays an important
role in protein turnover. The results of this study indicate that FOS and GOS can
be metabolized by E. durans and stimulate the microorganism to produce proteins
related to some desirable characteristics for a probiotic strain.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103430 
PMID: 32138988  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Authors declare
no conflicts of interest.

