
1. BMC Vet Res. 2020 Jan 8;16(1):7. doi: 10.1186/s12917-019-2200-6.

Prevalence, antibiotic susceptibility and virulence factors of Enterococcus
species in racing pigeons (Columba livia f. domestica).

Dolka B(1), Czopowicz M(2), Chrobak-Chmiel D(3), Ledwo≈Ñ A(4), Szeleszczuk P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Veterinary Diagnostics, Institute of Veterinary
Medicine, Warsaw University of Life Sciences - SGGW, Nowoursynowska 159c St,
02-776, Warsaw, Poland. beata_dolka@sggw.pl.
(2)Division of Veterinary Epidemiology and Economics, Institute of Veterinary
Medicine, Warsaw University of Life Sciences-SGGW, Nowoursynowska 159c St,
02-776, Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Department of Preclinical Sciences, Institute of Veterinary Medicine, Warsaw
University of Life Sciences-SGGW, Ciszewskiego 8 St, 02-786, Warsaw, Poland.
(4)Department of Pathology and Veterinary Diagnostics, Institute of Veterinary
Medicine, Warsaw University of Life Sciences - SGGW, Nowoursynowska 159c St,
02-776, Warsaw, Poland.

BACKGROUND: This study was aimed to investigate the intestinal microbiota in
racing pigeons with regard to Enterococcus species distribution, virulence
factors and antibiotic susceptibility. Three methods (API, Multiplex sodA-PCR,
16S rRNA sequencing) were compared for Enterococcus species identification.
Cloacal samples from 179 apparently healthy pigeons of 13 different flocks were
tested.
RESULTS: Multiplex sodA-PCR and 16S rRNA gene sequencing showed almost perfect
agreement in Enterococcus species identification. Isolates were identified as
Enterococcus columbae (34.5%), Enterococcus hirae (20.7%), Enterococcus faecalis 
(11.7%), Enterococcus faecium (11.7%), Enterococcus gallinarum (9%), Enterococcus
mundtii (4.8%), Enterococcus casseliflavus (3.4%), Enterococcus cecorum (2.1%),
Enterococcus durans (2.1%). More Enterococcus species were found after the race
season than before. The study showed differences between Enterococcus species in 
relation to 68.8% (22/32) biochemical parameters. Six out of seven virulence
genes were detected: gelE (43.5%), asa1 (42.1%), efaA (30.3%), ace (30.3%), cylA 
(27.6%), and esp (9%). None of the isolates harboured hyl gene. Overall 15.2% of 
Enterococcus isolates produced gelatinase, but 66.7% gelE genes were silent.
Enterococcus faecalis showed the most often efaA, ace and gelatinase activity
than other enterococcal species. Nearly all isolates (93.1%) were resistant to at
least one antibiotic. The most frequent resistance was to enrofloxacin (80%),
doxycycline with teicoplanin (73.1%), erythromycin (49.7%). The study revealed
significant differences between some enterococcal species in the antibiotic
susceptibility to different antibiotics. Enterococcus columbae and E. cecorum
showed significantly more frequent resistance to chloramphenicol than other
enterococci. The presence of VRE (19.3%), HLGR (2.8%) and no LRE were found.
Overall 30.3% of isolates were positive for vancomycin resistance genes, where
vanC1 (E. gallinarum), vanC2-C3 (E. hirae, E. casseliflavus), vanB (E. columbae) 
predominated.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude, that intestinal microbiota in racing pigeons is
composed by 9 different Enterococcus species. Given that racing pigeons are kept 
in close contact with humans and backyard animals, combined with their
long-distance flight abilities, they can serve as potential source of virulent
and antibiotic resistant Enterococcus spp. in the environment.

DOI: 10.1186/s12917-019-2200-6 
PMCID: PMC6947970
PMID: 31910839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

