
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jul 14;11:1634. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01634. eCollection 
2020.

Heterologous Expression of the Class IIa Bacteriocins, Plantaricin 423 and
Mundticin ST4SA, in Escherichia coli Using Green Fluorescent Protein as a Fusion 
Partner.

Vermeulen RR(1), Van Staden ADP(1)(2), Dicks L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, South
Africa.
(2)Department of Physiological Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch,
South Africa.

The antilisterial class IIa bacteriocins, plantaricin 423 and mundticin ST4SA,
have previously been purified from the cell-free supernatants of Lactobacillus
plantarum 423 and Enterococcus mundtii ST4SA, respectively. Here, we present the 
fusions of mature plantaricin 423 and mundticin ST4SA to His-tagged green
fluorescent protein (GFP) for respective heterologous expression in Escherichia
coli. Fusion of plantaricin 423 and mundticin ST4SA to His-tagged GFP produced
the fusion proteins GFP-PlaX and GFP-MunX, respectively. Both fusion proteins
were autofluorescent, circumvented inclusion body formation and lowered the
toxicity of class IIa bacteriocins during heterologous expression. Not only did
GFP-class IIa fusion stabilize heterologous expression and boost yields, the
fluorescent intensity of GFP-PlaX and GFP-MunX could be monitored quantitatively 
and qualitatively throughout expression and purification. This robust
fluorometric property allowed rapid optimization of conditions for expression and
bacteriocin liberation from GFP via the incorporated WELQut protease cleavage
sequence. Incubation temperature and IPTG concentration had a significant effect 
on bacteriocin yield, and was optimal at 18°C and 0.1-0.2 mM, respectively.
GFP-MunX was approximately produced at a yield of 153.30 mg/L culture which
resulted in 12.4 mg/L active mundticin ST4SA after liberation and HPLC
purification. While GFP-PlaX was produced at a yield of 121.29 mg/L culture,
evidence suggests heterologous expression resulted in conformation isomers of
WELQut liberated plantaricin 423.

Copyright © 2020 Vermeulen, Van Staden and Dicks.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01634 
PMCID: PMC7381239
PMID: 32765464 

