
1. Microb Drug Resist. 2020 Mar 16. doi: 10.1089/mdr.2019.0095. [Epub ahead of
print]

Whole Genome Sequence Analysis of the First Vancomycin-Resistant Enterococcus
faecium Isolates from a Libyan Hospital in Tripoli.

Ahmed MO(1), Elramalli AK(2), Baptiste KE(3), Daw MA(4), Zorgani A(4), Brouwer
E(5), Willems RJL(5), Top J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Parasitology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Tripoli, Tripoli, Libya.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Tripoli Medical Center, Tripoli, Libya.
(3)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Danish Medicines Agency, Copenhagen,
Denmark.
(4)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Tripoli, Tripoli, Libya.
(5)Department of Medical Microbiology, UMCU, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

The purpose of the study was to investigate the molecular characteristics and
genetic relatedness of the first reported cases of vancomycin-resistant
enterococci (VRE) from the Tripoli Medical Center, Libya. In total, 43 VRE
isolates were obtained from various clinical sites throughout the years
2013-2014, including 40 vanA-type and 2 vanB-type vancomycin-resistant
Enterococcus faecium isolates and 1 vanC1-type Enterococcus gallinarum. Of the 42
E. faecium, 19 isolates were subjected to whole genome sequencing. Core genome
multilocus sequence typing (cgMLST) analysis revealed three sequence clusters
(SCs) of clonally related isolates, which were linked to different hospital
wards. The first two VRE isolates, isolated early 2013 from patients in the
medical intensive care unit, were grouped in SC1 (MLST [ST] 78, vanB) and
differed in only 3 of 1423 cgMLST alleles. The SC2 (n = 16, special care baby
unit, neonatal intensive care unit, pediatric surgery ward, and oncology ward)
and SC3 (n = 1, antenatal ward) were all ST80 vanA-VRE, but the single SC3
isolate differed in 233 alleles compared with SC2. Within SC2, isolates differed 
in 1-23 alleles. Comparison with a larger database of E. faecium strains
indicated that all isolates clustered within the previously defined hospital
clade A1. A combination of Resfinder and mlplasmid analysis identified the
presence of resistance genes on different plasmid predicted genetic elements
among different SCs. In conclusion, this study documents the first isolates
causing outbreaks with VRE in the Libyan health care system. Further surveillance
efforts using molecular typing methods to monitor spread of multidrug-resistant
bacteria in the Libyan health care system are urgently needed.

DOI: 10.1089/mdr.2019.0095 
PMID: 32181678 

