
1. PLoS One. 2020 Apr 14;15(4):e0231146. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0231146.
eCollection 2020.

Whole genome sequencing of extended-spectrum β-lactamase genes in
Enterobacteriaceae isolates from Nigeria.

Jesumirhewe C(1), Springer B(2), Allerberger F(2), Ruppitsch W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Microbiology, Prof Dora Akunyili College of
Pharmacy, Igbinedion University, Okada, Nigeria.
(2)Institute of Medical Microbiology and Hygiene, Austrian Agency for Health and 
Food Safety (AGES), Vienna, Austria.

Extended Spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)-producing Enterobacteriaceae are of major
concern as they are implicated in multidrug resistant nosocomial infections. They
are listed on a recently published global priority list of antibiotic-resistant
bacteria by the World Health Organization which raises concern in both healthcare
and community settings. This study aimed at determining the frequency of ESBL
genes in multidrug resistant human clinical Enterobacteriaceae isolates from Edo 
state Nigeria and to characterize the resistance mechanisms using whole genome
sequencing. A total of 217 consecutive clinical isolates of Enterobacteriaceae,
selection based on inclusion criteria, were collected from March-May 2015 from
three medical microbiology laboratories of hospitals in Edo state Nigeria. All
isolates were analyzed using matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of 
flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry. Antibiotic susceptibility testing was
performed by Kirby-Bauer method and minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC)
determination by E-test method. Double disc synergy test was used to screen for
the production of ESBL. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) was performed for isolate
characterization and identification of resistance determinants. Out of 217
consecutive clinical Enterobacteriaceae isolates, 148 (68.2%) were multi-drug
resistant. Of these multi-drug resistant isolates, 60 (40.5%) were positive for
the ESBL phenotypic test and carried ESBL genes. CTX-M-15 was the predominant
ESBL found, among 93.3% (n = 56/60). Thirty-two plasmid incompatibility groups
and 28 known and two new sequence types were identified among the ESBL isolates. 
The high occurrence of CTX-M-15 with associated resistant determinants in
multidrug resistant Enterobacteriaceae harboring different plasmid
incompatibility groups and sequence types calls for the need of continuous
monitoring of this resistance threat to reduce its public health impact. To our
knowledge, this study presents the first genomic characterization of ESBL
production mediated by blaCTX-M-15 in human clinical isolates of Enterobacter
hormaechei, Citrobacter werkmanii and Atlantibacter hermannii from Nigeria.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0231146 
PMCID: PMC7156064
PMID: 32287306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

