
1. 3 Biotech. 2020 Jul;10(7):317. doi: 10.1007/s13205-020-02307-0. Epub 2020 Jun 25.

Antibacterial metabolites from Bipolaris specifera, an endophytic fungus from the
endemic medicinal plant, Zingiber nimmonii (J. Graham) Dalzell.

Das M(1), Prakash HS(2), Nalini MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Studies in Botany, University of Mysore, Manasagangotri, Mysore,
Karnataka 570 006 India.
(2)Department of Studies in Biotechnology, University of Mysore, Manasagangotri, 
Mysore, Karnataka 570 006 India.

Eleven fungal endophytes were isolated from the plant parts of Z. nimmonii (J.
Graham) Dalzell, an endemic species of the Western Ghats, India, a biodiversity
hotspot area. The endophytic isolates were characterized by the sequencing of the
Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) regions and designated as strains by depositing
ITS sequences in the Gen Bank sequence database. All the strains were cultured in
Potato Dextrose broth (PDB, 500 mL) contained in Erlenmeyer flasks to obtain the 
secondary metabolites. The culture filtrate was extracted with ethyl-acetate (EA)
three times and concentrated by flash evaporation to obtain EA crude dry extract.
The strains were evaluated for the antibacterial potentials against six
pathogenic bacterial strains viz., Bacillus subtilis (MTCC 121), Staphylococcus
aureus (MTCC 7443) Pseudomonas aeruginosa (MTCC 7093), Escherichia coli (MTCC
729), Enterobacter aerogenes (MTCC 111) and Klebsiella pneumoniae (MTCC 661).
Nine endophytic fungal extracts except Alternaria consortiale and Hypocrea lixi
showed inhibitory activities against at least two of the six test bacterial
strains. Bipolaris specifera (KM114290) exhibited the highest inhibition zones
ranging from 15.1 ± 0.3 to 26.7 ± 1.1 mm (diameter), against all six test
bacteria in the agar disk diffusion assay, and with Minimum Inhibitory
Concentrations (MIC's) of 0.04-0.14 mg/mL, followed by Aspergillus terreus. B.
specifera extract was therefore selected and characterized for the identification
of antibacterial compounds by chromatographic techniques. Seven antibacterial
compounds viz., (1) Bicyclo[3.2.0]heptan-2-one, 6-hydroxy-5-methyl-6-vinyl; (2)
Adipic acid divinyl ester; (3) 1,4-Naphthoquinone, 6-acetyl-2,5-dihydroxy; (4)
Decanedioic acid, 3,7-dimethyl ester; (5) (Z)-4-Hexenoic acid
2-acetyl-2-methyl-ethyl ester and (6) Butanoic acid 2-acetyl-3-methyl-methyl
ester and (7) Caffeic acid, were identified through liquid and gas
chromatography. These compounds are mainly volatile esters of fatty acids,
phenolics and adipic acid found rare in nature. This study envisages the possible
drug discovery using endophytes from traditional and endemic medicinal species.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-020-02307-0 
PMCID: PMC7316947 [Available on 2021-07-01]
PMID: 32626638 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestOn behalf of all authors, the
corresponding author states that there is no conflict of interest.

