
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jul 15;11:1578. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01578. eCollection 
2020.

Isolation of a Leuconostoc mesenteroides Strain With Anti-Porcine Epidemic
Diarrhea Virus Activities From Kefir Grains.

Chang-Liao WP(1), Lee A(1), Chiu YH(1), Chang HW(2), Liu JR(1)(3)(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)School of Veterinary Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Animal Science and Technology, National Taiwan University,
Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Center for Biotechnology, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Agricultural Biotechnology Research Center, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.

Swine grown under commercial conditions are vulnerable to environmental exposure 
to several viruses, which may cause infectious diseases and spread easily and
rapidly, resulting in significant economic losses in animal husbandry. Previous
studies have suggested that probiotics seem to be a new and promising alternative
to vaccinations to protect animals against potential viral infections. In this
study, we used the Vero cell culture model of infection to study porcine epidemic
diarrhea virus (PEDV). We screened lactic acid bacteria (LAB) with anti-PEDV
potential from kefir grains, which are starter cultures used to ferment milk into
kefir. Twenty-nine LAB strains were isolated and identified as Enterococcus
durans, Lactobacillus kefiri, Lactococcus lactis, and Leuconostoc mesenteroides, 
according to 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and rpoA gene sequence analyses. The
anti-PEDV activities of the LAB intracellular extracts were compared, and the
intracellular extracts of Ln. mesenteroides showed higher anti-PEDV activities
than that of the other species. Among the Ln. mesenteroides strains, a strain
designated YPK30 showed a higher growth rate than that of the other strains and
was further evaluated for its anti-PEDV activity. The results showed that the
intracellular extracts of Ln. mesenteroides YPK30 possessed in vitro
prophylactic, therapeutic, and direct-inhibitory effects against PEDV in the Vero
cell model. The expression levels of Type 1 interferon (IFN)-dependent genes,
including Myxovirus resistance 1 (MX1) and interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15),
were significantly increased after treatment with intracellular extracts of Ln.
mesenteroides YPK30 for 24 h. Such expression suggests that the anti-PEDV
activity of Ln. mesenteroides YPK30 could be attributed to its up-regulatory
effect on the expression of MX1 and ISG15 genes. These results suggested that Ln.
mesenteroides YPK30 has the potential to provide some levels of host protection
against PEDV infections.

Copyright Â© 2020 Chang-Liao, Lee, Chiu, Chang and Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01578 
PMCID: PMC7373756
PMID: 32760370 

