
1. Int J Antimicrob Agents. 2020 Oct;56(4):106117. doi:
10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2020.106117. Epub 2020 Jul 31.

New insights regarding Acinetobacter genomic island-related elements.

Siebor E(1), Neuwirth C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Bacteriology, University Hospital of Dijon, Plateau technique de
Biologie, BP 37013, 21070 Dijon Cedex, France, and UMR 6249, CNRS
Chrono-environnement, Université de Bourgogne Franche-Comté, 25000 Besançon,
France.
(2)Laboratory of Bacteriology, University Hospital of Dijon, Plateau technique de
Biologie, BP 37013, 21070 Dijon Cedex, France, and UMR 6249, CNRS
Chrono-environnement, Université de Bourgogne Franche-Comté, 25000 Besançon,
France. Electronic address: catherine.neuwirth@chu-dijon.fr.

The objective of this study was to mobilise the Acinetobacter genomic island 1-A 
(AGI1-A) from Enterobacter hormaechei EclCSP2185 (E. cloacae complex) and to
search for the distribution and structure of AGI1-related elements in the NCBI
database. AGI1-A was transferred to Escherichia coli. Analysis of the attachment 
(att) sites could locate the possible recombination crossover in the att
sequences at position 10-11 (GG) in the last 18 bp of trmE. In silico detection
of AGI backbones in the WGS database identified AGI variants in Salmonella
enterica (83 strains), Vibrio cholerae (33), E. hormaechei (12), Acinetobacter
baumannii (2), most belonging to prevalent clones (ST40, ST69, ST114 and ST25,
respectively), but also in E. coli (1) and Klebsiella pneumoniae (1). Two groups 
of backbone were identified: one similar to AGI1, the other with a short segment 
from a Shewanella element upstream of ORF A022. The MDR regions were inserted by 
transposition at the res site in four different positions ATAGG (A. baumannii),
CATAG (S. enterica and V. cholerae), TAGGT (S. enterica and K. pneumoniae) and
TGCAC (S. enterica) representing four different lineages. In some V. cholerae, E.
hormaechei and E. coli, deletion events occurred that eliminated part of the
backbone at the left junction. Analysis of the right junction identified a fifth 
lineage in V. cholerae and E. hormaechei (CCATA). In conclusion, based on the
position of the MDR region, AGI-related elements belonged to five groups of
closely related genomic islands (AGI1-AGI5), with differences in backbones that
evolved independently over time.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2020.106117 
PMID: 32745526 

