
1. J Microbiol Methods. 2020 Jul;174:105941. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2020.105941. Epub 
2020 May 17.

Application of novel bacterial consortium for biodegradation of aromatic amine
2-ABS using response surface methodology.

Fatima M(1), Saeed M(2), Aslam M(3), Lindström RW(4), Farooq R(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosciences, COMSATS University Islamabad, Islamabad, Pakistan; 
Department of Chemistry, COMSATS University Islamabad, Lahore Campus, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Biosciences, COMSATS University Islamabad, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, COMSATS University Islamabad, Lahore
Campus, Pakistan.
(4)Deptartment of Chemical Engineering, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, 100 44
Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Department of Chemistry, COMSATS University Islamabad, Lahore Campus,
Pakistan. Electronic address: drrobinafarooq@ciitlahore.edu.pk.

There is a strong need to develop purification methods for textile industrial
wastewater containing toxic azo dyes. The reductive cleavage of azo dyes can be
made by anaerobic bacteria, but the products of aromatic amines require an
aerobic process. In this study a novel bacterial dye degrading consortium (DDC)
of five isolated strains identified with 16S rRNA sequence: Proteus mirabilis
(KR732288), Bacillus anthracis (KR732289), Enterobacter hormaechei (KR732290),
Pseudomonas aeruginosa (KR732293) and Serratia rubidaea (KR732296) were used to
aerobically decompose metabolite 2-aminobenxenesulfonic acid (2-ABS), as a model 
compound. The effect of three variables: temperature (28-42 °C), pH (5.0-8.0) and
initial concentration of 2-ABS (5-40 ppm) was investigated in terms of
degradation and chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal. Central composite design
matrixand response surface methodology (RSM) were used for experimental design to
evaluate theinteraction of the three process variables. The results show that up 
to 95% degradation and COD 90% removal are possible at optimal values of 32.4 ppm
2-ABS, pH 6.6 and a temperature of 35.7 °C. The theoretical response variables
predicted by the developed RSM model was supported the experimental results. The 
optimized degradation of 2-ABS and COD removal were further confirmed by UV-HPLC 
analysis.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mimet.2020.105941 
PMID: 32433994 

