
1. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2019 Nov;69(5):339-345. doi: 10.1111/lam.13210. Epub 2019
Oct 9.

Effect of proteolytic bacteria on texture and colour quality of khanom-jeen,
traditional Thai fermented rice noodles.

Shompoosang S(1), Marui J(2), Yodin K(1), Varichanan P(1), Panthavee W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Food Research and Product Development, Kasetsart University,
Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Japan International Research Center for Agricultural Sciences (JIRCAS),
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.

Khanom-jeen are traditional Thai fermented rice noodles with a characteristic
flavour and texture. Based on their ability to hydrolyse rice proteins, five
strains of proteolytic bacteria were isolated from fermented rice flour used to
produce noodles in Thailand. Enterobacter ludwigii strain SK01 showed the highest
degree of rice protein hydrolysis among the five strains and was selected as a
starter culture for khanom-jeen production. The viable count of micro-organisms, 
acidity, pH, and protein and starch contents were compared throughout the
fermented rice production with and without the SK01 strain. The pH of fermented
rice increased on the first day of solid-state fermentation and subsequently
decreased to 3·7-3·8 under both conditions. The protein content of rice
significantly decreased from 80 to 18·2 ± 0·5 mg g-1 and 26 ± 0·6 mg g-1 during
fermentation with and without the SK01 strain, respectively. The tensile
strength, breaking length, brightness, and whiteness, which are important factors
for the texture and appearance of khanom-jeen, were improved using the SK01
strain to ferment rice. The results of this laboratory-scale study indicated that
the use of the proteolytic SK01 strain in fermented rice production can improve
the quality of khanom-jeen noodles. SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: The use
of Enterobacter ludwigii strain SK01 as a proteolytic bacterial starter culture
improved the quality of khanom-jeen noodles. Compared with khanom-jeen noodles
produced without E. ludwigii strain SK01, those produced using this strain showed
increased tensile strength, breaking length, brightness and whiteness. These
findings will be useful for the development of specific and controllable methods 
for producing khanom-jeen noodles with desirable texture and colour.

© 2019 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.13210 
PMID: 31454416  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

