
1. Environ Monit Assess. 2020 Jul 2;192(7):480. doi: 10.1007/s10661-020-08461-5.

Bacteria from industrial waste: potential producers of polyhydroxyalkanoates
(PHAs) in Manizales, Colombia.

Giraldo-Montoya JM(1)(2), Castaño-Villa GJ(3), Rivera-Páez FA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Grupo de Investigación GEBIOME, Departamento de Ciencias Biológicas, Facultad 
de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Universidad de Caldas, Calle 65 No. 26-10
Apartado Aéreo 275 Manizales, Caldas, Colombia.
(2)Laboratorio de Biotecnología, Centro de Investigación e Innovación
TECNOACADEMIA, Centro Industrial y Desarrollo Empresarial, Servicio Nacional de
Aprendizaje - SENA, Autopista Sur Carrera 4a # 53-54, Soacha, Cundinamarca,
Colombia.
(3)Grupo de Investigación GEBIOME, Departamento de Desarrollo Rural y Recursos
Naturales, Facultad de Ciencias Agropecuarias, Universidad de Caldas, Calle 65
No. 26-10 Apartado Aéreo 275 Manizales, Caldas, Colombia.
(4)Grupo de Investigación GEBIOME, Departamento de Ciencias Biológicas, Facultad 
de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Universidad de Caldas, Calle 65 No. 26-10
Apartado Aéreo 275 Manizales, Caldas, Colombia. fredy.rivera@ucaldas.edu.co.

Polymers are currently used in the industry as raw material, yet they are rapidly
eliminated and largely contaminate the environment. To address this issue, there 
is a special interest in biodegradable polymers, namely, polyhydroxyalkanoates
(PHAs), produced by microorganisms. This study identifies PHA-producing bacteria 
from two industrial wastewaters of Manizales, Colombia. The samples were cultured
in mineral salt medium with glucose as the carbon source in the presence of Nile 
red stain. The fluorescent colonies were independently transferred to another
medium and assessed through fluorescence microscopy with Nile blue stain. The
fluorescent strains under Nile blue staining were purified in Nutrient Agar, and 
their morphological and microbiological characteristics were determined. The
bacteria positive for red-orange fluorescence were purified in Nutrient Agar
medium, and molecular analyses were performed by PCR amplification of a 650-bp
fragment of the 16S ribosomal DNA gene. The bacteria were also assessed in terms 
of PHA production. We confirmed the identity of 12 out of 14 PHA-positive
strains, which belonged to the following genera: Bacillus, Lactococcus,
Citrobacter, Enterobacter, and Acinetobacter. Five of the isolates (Enterobacter 
cloacae, Enterobacter sp., Enterobacter ludwigii, Bacillus thuringiensis, and
Bacillus safensis) are promising strains for PHA production, with production
values ranging from 0.360 to 0.9960 g/L. Bacteria that produce more than 0.3 g/L 
are considered useful for the industrial manufacture of bioplastic. We recommend 
performing large-scale studies on these strains to assess their use for the
industrial production of biopolymers, allowing to generate high-impact
bioconversion processes of industrial interest.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-020-08461-5 
PMID: 32617674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

