
1. Int Microbiol. 2020 Apr 18. doi: 10.1007/s10123-020-00127-z. [Epub ahead of
print]

Antimicrobial activity of bacteriocins produced by Enterococcus isolates
recovered from Egyptian homemade dairy products against some foodborne pathogens.

Sonbol FI(1), Abdel Aziz AA(1), El-Banna TE(1), Al-Fakhrany OM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tanta University, Tanta,
31111, Egypt.
(2)Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tanta University, Tanta,
31111, Egypt. momtaz_omnia@yahoo.com.

The increasing mandate for fresh-like food products and the possible hazards of
chemically preserved foods necessitate the search for alternatives. Bacteriocins 
represent a promising food biopreservative. In the present study, one hundred
enterococci isolates recovered from Egyptian raw cow milk and homemade dairy
products were screened for bacteriocin production. The overall detection rate was
10%. Three isolates, namely, Enterococcus faecalis (OE-7 and OE-12) and
Enterococcus hirae (OE-9), showed the highest antibacterial activity with narrow 
spectrum against multidrug-resistant (MDR) Gram-positive foodborne bacteria:
Enterococcus faecalis and Staphylococcus aureus. The antimicrobial activity was
completely abolished by trypsin and proteinase K but not affected by lipase
and/or amylase indicating the protein nature of the antimicrobial activity.
Optimum conditions for bacteriocin production were cultivation in MRS broth at
37 °C, pH 6-6.5 for 16-24 h. The tested bacteriocins exhibited bactericidal
activity on S. aureus subsp. aureus ATCC 25923; such activity was further
investigated by transmission electron microscopy that revealed leakage and lysis 
of treated cells. Characterization of tested bacteriocins revealed high activity 
in a wide range of pH and temperature, storage stability, and heat resistance.
PCR analysis revealed that the tested isolates produced multiple enterocins
showing homology with the enterocins L50A, AS-48, and 31. Finally, this study
reported potent antibacterial activity of bacteriocins derived from dairy
products Enterococci against MDR foodborne and spoilage pathogens. The potency,
specificity, and stability of these bacteriocins presented promising perspectives
for application as biopreservatives in the food industry. The biopreservation of 
foods by bacteriocins produced by lactic acid bacteria recovered directly from
foods remains an innovative approach.

DOI: 10.1007/s10123-020-00127-z 
PMID: 32306109 

