
1. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2020 Sep 23;44:e61. doi: 10.26633/RPSP.2020.61.
eCollection 2020.

[Panorama of carbapenemases in PeruUm panorama das carbapenemases presentes no
Peru].

[Article in Spanish]

Angles-Yanqui E(1), Huaringa-Marcelo J(2), Sacsaquispe-Contreras R(3),
Pampa-Espinoza L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Medicina Alberto Hurtado, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia
Lima Perú Facultad de Medicina Alberto Hurtado, Universidad Peruana Cayetano
Heredia, Lima, Perú.
(2)Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad Científica del Sur Lima Perú
Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad Científica del Sur, Lima, Perú.
(3)Instituto Nacional de Salud Lima Perú Instituto Nacional de Salud, Lima, Perú.

Objective: To describe the genotypes of the carbapenemases reported from
microbiological isolates of patients in Peru.
Methods: A systematic search of the biomedical literature about carbapenemases
with genotypic confirmation was carried out. It included literature published
from 1 January 2000 through 15 September 2019 in the PubMed, SCOPUS, Virtual
Health Library, CONCYTEC Virtual Library, and Google Scholar databases, and other
sources for the publication of abstracts or posters from national or
international meetings. Two reviewers carried out the data selection and
extraction.
Results: Fourteen studies, which carried out the genotypic characterization of
313 carbapenemases, were included. Of the total 313 reports, 103 analyzed
enterobacteria: 74 were of Klebsiella pneumoniae, 11 of Proteus mirabilis, 7 of
Enterobacter cloacae, and 11 of other enterobacteria; and 61 corresponded to bla 
NDM , 39 to bla KPC, and 3 to bla IMP . According to their molecular structure,
64 were metallo-ß-lactamases and 39 were serine-ß-lactamases. Of the total
reports, 84 analyzed Pseudomonas aeruginosa: 79 corresponded to bla IMP , 4 to
bla VIM , and 1 to bla GES. Of the total reports, 126 analyzed Acinetobacter
baumannii: 55 corresponded to bla OXA-23 , 66 to bla OXA-24 , 3 to bla NDM, and 2
to bla OXA-143 .
Conclusions: There is a limited number of publications about carbapenemases among
patients in Peru. The genotype reports come primarily from hospitals in the
country's capital. This is the first review that aims to identify the types of
carbapenemases reported in enterobacteria, P. aeruginosa, and A. baummani.

Publisher: Descrever os genótipos das carbapenemases relatadas a partir de
isolados microbiológicos de pacientes no Peru.Fizemos uma pesquisa sistemática da
literatura biomédica publicada de 1º de janeiro de 2000 a 15 de setembro de 2019 
nas bases de dados PubMed, SCOPUS, Biblioteca Virtual de Saúde, Biblioteca
Virtual CONCYTEC, Google Scholar e outras fontes de publicações de resumos ou
pôsteres em conferências nacionais ou internacionais sobre carbapenemases com
confirmação genotípica; a seleção e extração de dados foi feita por
pares.Incluímos 14 estudos nos quais foi feita a caracterização genotípica de 313
carbapenemases. Ao todo, 103 destes relatos vieram de testes efetuados em
enterobactérias; destes, 74 foram em Klebsiella pneumoniae, 11 em Proteus
mirabilis, 7 em Enterobacter cloacae e 11 em outros organismos. Destes 103
relatos, 61 correspondem a bla NDM, 39 a bla KPC e 3 a bla IMP. Segundo a
estrutura molecular, 64 foram metalo-betalactamases e 39 foram
serino-betalactamases. Foram incluídos 84 relatos sobre Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
dos quais 79 corresponderam a bla IMP, 4 a bla VIM e 1 a bla GES. Também houve
126 relatos sobre Acinetobacter baumannii, dos quais 55 corresponderam a bla
OXA-23, 66 a bla OXA-24, 3 a bla NDM e 2 a bla OXA-143.Existem poucas publicações
sobre carbapenemases em pacientes no Peru; os relatos genotípicos provêm, em sua 
maioria, de hospitais da capital do país. Esta é a primeira revisão que procura
estabelecer os tipos de carbapenemases relatadas em enterobactérias, P.
aeruginosa e A. baumannii.
DOI: 10.26633/RPSP.2020.61 
PMCID: PMC7498286
PMID: 32973907 

