
1. Microb Cell Fact. 2020 May 4;19(1):98. doi: 10.1186/s12934-020-01352-x.

Novel enterocin E20c purified from Enterococcus hirae 20c synergised with
ß-lactams and ciprofloxacin against Salmonella enterica.

Sharma P(1), Rashid M(1), Kaur S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, Punjab,
India.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, Punjab,
India. drsukhrajkaur@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: An increasing rate of antibiotic resistance among Gram-negative
bacterial pathogens has created an urgent need to discover novel therapeutic
agents to combat infectious diseases. Use of bacteriocins as therapeutic agents
has immense potential due to their high potency and mode of action different from
that of conventional antibiotics.
RESULTS: In this study, a novel bacteriocin E20c of molecular weight 6.5 kDa was 
purified and characterized from the probiotic strain of Enterococcus hirae. E20c 
had bactericidal activities against several multidrug resistant (MDR)
Gram-negative bacterial pathogens. Flow cytometry and scanning electron
microscopy studies showed that it killed the Salmonella enterica cells by forming
ion-permeable channels in the cell membrane leading to enhanced cell membrane
permeability. Further, checkerboard titrations showed that E20c had synergistic
interaction with antibiotics such as ampicillin, penicillin, ceftriaxone, and
ciprofloxacin against a ciprofloxacin- and penicillin-resistant strain of S.
enterica.
CONCLUSION: Thus, this study shows the broad spectrum antimicrobial activity of
novel enterocin E20c against various MDR pathogens. Further, it highlights the
importance of bacteriocins in lowering the minimum inhibitory concentrations of
conventional antibiotics when used in combination.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-020-01352-x 
PMCID: PMC7197179
PMID: 32366243 

