
1. Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek. 2020 Oct;113(10):1507-1521. doi:
10.1007/s10482-020-01459-6. Epub 2020 Aug 27.

Entomogenous fungi isolated from Cryptotympana atrata with antibacterial and
antifungal activity.

Cui X(1), Wang H(2), Yang H(2), Li X(2), Li X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Jining Medical University, Jining, China. cuixqiu@163.com.
(2)Jining Medical University, Jining, China.

Although many entomogenous fungi have been discovered over the years, few studies
on the crude extracts of fungi isolated from Cryptotympana atrata with
antibacterial and antifungal activity were reported. In this study, total twenty 
entomogenous fungi were isolated for the first time. And among of them, two pure 
cultures were identified as Purpureocillium lilacinum and Aspergillus fumigatus
with apparent morphology, microscopic identification and 18S rRNA gene sequence. 
The active strains were fermented to optimize in six different culture media at
three different pH values. The antibacterial and antifungal activities of the
metabolites were more potent and efficient in Fungal medium 3# at a pH of 6.2
than in the other tested media or at the other tested pH values. Total seven
human pathogens and one insect pathogen were used to evaluate the antibacterial
and antifungal activity of crude extracts, among which 25% of the extracts
exhibited antifungal activity against Verticillium lecanii, while 33.3% and 47.2%
of the extracts exhibited antibacterial activity against the important human
pathogens Staphylococcus aureus and Bacillus cereus, respectively. The range of
the MICs was from 15.6 to 250 μg mL-1, and 35% of the fungal metabolites
exhibited antibacterial activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Bacillus
thuringiensis and Enterobacter aerogenes at 1000 μg mL-1 except the previously
described antibacterial activities. Furthermore, the phylogenetic relationships
of the two identified fungi were also constructed. In brief, it is the first
reporting about enthompathogenic fungi from Cryptotympana atrata and provides
candidate strains with potential use as biological agents and against
multidrug-resistant organisms.

DOI: 10.1007/s10482-020-01459-6 
PMID: 32852662 

