
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Dec;92:103590. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103590. Epub 2020 Jul 
8.

Verification of peroxyacetic acid treatment against L. monocytogenes on fresh
apples using E. faecium NRRL B-2354 as a surrogate in commercial spray-bar
operations.

Shen X(1), Su Y(1), Hua Z(1), Cong J(2), Dhowlaghar N(1), Sun Q(1), Lin S(1),
Green T(1), Perrault M(3), Galeni M(3), Hanrahan I(3), Suslow TV(4), Zhu MJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Food Science, Washington State University, Pullman, WA, 99164, USA.
(2)School of Food Science, Washington State University, Pullman, WA, 99164, USA; 
School of Public Administration, Shanghai Open University, Shanghai, 200433, PR
China.
(3)Washington Tree Fruit Research Commission, Wenatchee, WA, 98801, USA.
(4)Department of Plant Sciences, University of California, One Shields Avenue,
Davis, CA, 95616, USA.
(5)School of Food Science, Washington State University, Pullman, WA, 99164, USA. 
Electronic address: meijun.zhu@wsu.edu.

Peroxyacetic acid (PAA) is a commonly used antimicrobial in apple spray bar
interventions during post-harvest packing. However, limited information is
available about its efficacy against foodborne pathogens on fresh apples under
commercial packing conditions. In this study, the practical efficacies of PAA
against Listeria monocytogenes on fresh apples during spray bar operation at
ambient and elevated temperature were validated in three commercial packing
facilities using Enterococcus faecium NRRL B-2354 as a surrogate strain. Apples
were inoculated with E. faecium at ~6.5 Log10 CFU/apple and subjected to PAA
spray bar interventions per commercial packing line practice. At each temperature
and contact time intervention combination, 20-24 inoculated apples were processed
together with 72-80 non-inoculated apples. Applying 80 ppm PAA at ambient
temperature (17-21 °C) achieved a similar log reduction (P > 0.05) of E. faecium 
on Granny Smith apples (GSA) in three apple packing facilities, which caused
1.12-1.23 and 1.18-1.32 Log10 CFU/apple reductions of E. faecium on GSA for
30-sec and 60-sec intervention, respectively. Increasing the temperature of the
PAA solution to 43-45 °C enhanced its bactericidal effect against E. faecium,
causing 1.45, 1.86 and 2.19 Log10 CFU/apple reductions in three packing
facilities for a 30-sec contact, and 1.50, 2.24, and 2.29 Log10 CFU/apple
reductions for a 60-sec contact, respectively. Similar efficacies (P > 0.05) of
PAA at both ambient and elevated temperature were also observed on Fuji apples.
Spraying PAA on apples at ambient or elevated temperature reduced the level of E.
faecium cross-contamination from inoculated apples to non-inoculated apples but
could not eliminate cross-contamination. Data from this study provides valuable
technical information and a reference point for the apple industry in controlling
L. monocytogenes and verifying the effectiveness of their practices.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103590 
PMID: 32950134 

