
1. J Clin Pediatr Dent. 2020;44(1):28-34. doi: 10.17796/1053-4625-44.1.5.

Identification of Non- Streptococcus mutans Bacteria from Predente Infant Saliva 
Grown on Mitis-Salivarius-Bacitracin Agar.

Zeng Y, Youssef M, Wang L, Alkhars N, Thomas M, Cacciato R, Qing S, Ly-Mapes O,
Xiao J.

Objective: Although mitis-salivarius-bacitracin (MSB) agar is a commonly used
selective medium for detecting Streptococcus mutans in clinical studies, non-S.
mutans microorganisms are cultivatable on MSB agar. Since few studies have
identified non-S. mutans bacteria grown on MSB, this study aimed to identify and 
differentiate MSB-grown non-S. mutans bacteria from predente infants' oral
cavity. Study design: The saliva from 51 predente infants were plated on MSB
agars. Bacteria colonies were characterized based on their morphology under
direct visualization and light microscopic observation. Colony PCR targeting S.
mutans htrA locus and 16S rRNA DNA sequencing were used for further bacteria
identification. Results: Overall, 80% of the predente infants had oral bacteria
grown on the MSB agar. Nine bacteria were identified, including S. mutans,
Staphylococcus epidermidis, Klebsiella quasi-pneumoniae, Klebsiella pneumoniae,
Enterobacter kobei, Enterococcus faecalis, Staphylococcus hominis, Streptococcus 
anginosus and Phytobacter. The most frequently detected bacteria were S.
epidermidis (41.5%), followed by E. kobei (24.4%), K. pneumoniae (17.1%) and S.
mutans (9.8%.) Conclusions: Multiple non-S. mutans bacteria from infants' oral
cavity could grow on MSB agar. Caution should be exercised in counting the colony
forming units of S. mutans from oral samples on MSB agar to avoid overestimation 
by assuming that all colonies on the MSB agar are S. mutans. Using the colony
morphological guide we summarized, these non-S. mutans bacteria could be
distinguished from S. mutans. Our study provides a key reference to pediatric
cariology clinical-epidemiological studies that commonly use MSB to
identify/quantify S. mutans in infants and young children.

DOI: 10.17796/1053-4625-44.1.5 
PMCID: PMC7335020
PMID: 31995418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

