
1. Heliyon. 2019 Nov 1;5(10):e02742. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2019.e02742. eCollection
2019 Oct.

Screening of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon degrading bacterial isolates from
oil refinery wastewater and detection of conjugative plasmids in polycyclic
aromatic hydrocarbon tolerant and multi-metal resistant bacteria.

Khatoon K(1), Malik A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Microbiology, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences,
Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, 202002, Uttar Pradesh, India.

Wastewater were collected from the effluent channel in the vicinity of Mathura
oil refinery, U.P. (India) and analysed for physicochemical characteristics,
heavy metals as well as organic compounds including PAHs. The interaction of PAHs
and heavy metals with various group of microorganisms revealed the viable count
of aerobic heterotrophs, asymbiotic nitrogen fixers, actinomycetes and fungi were
found to be 2.38 × 106, 1.89 × 104, 2.20 × 104 CFU/mL and 8.76 × 103 CFU/mL
respectively. We have selected and screened 50 bacterial isolates for their
resistance/tolerance to heavy metal and PAHs. Out of 25 multi-metal resistant
isolates, 6 were able to tolerate PAHs at the concentration of 5000 μg/mL
(50μg/disc) to naphthalene, anthracene, phenanthrene and pyrene. The PAH
degradation efficiency of the isolates was assessed using spectrophotometer with 
100 μg/mL of phenanthrene and observed different degree of degradation ranging
from 34-66% after 96 h of incubation. One of the bacterial isolates KWB3
(identified as Enterobacter ludwigii by 16S rDNA sequencing) exhibited maximum
degradation efficiency (66%) was further tested for phenanthrene degrading
ability in the presence and absence of a co-substrate (glucose) in a mineral salt
medium; and a number of metabolites were produced and detected by GC-MS which
revealed the presence of benzocoumarin, phthalic acid, catechol and several low
molecular weight compounds. The DNA derived from multi-metal and PAHs tolerant
bacteria were PCR amplified using Inc specific primers and positive PCR products 
were obtained with oriT and trfA2 of the IncP group; indicates that these
bacteria have gene-mobilizing capacity.

© 2019 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2019.e02742 
PMCID: PMC6838955
PMID: 31720477 

