
1. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2020 Oct 3. doi: 10.1007/s12602-020-09711-1.
[Epub ahead of print]

Anti-Proliferative and Anti-Biofilm Potentials of Bacteriocins Produced by
Non-Pathogenic Enterococcus sp.

Molham F(1), Khairalla AS(1)(2), Azmy AF(3), El-Gebaly E(1)(4), El-Gendy AO(5),
AbdelGhani S(1)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology and Immunology Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Beni-Suef
University, Beni-Suef, 62514, Egypt.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Regina, Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada.
(3)Microbiology and Immunology Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Beni-Suef
University, Beni-Suef, 62514, Egypt. ahmed.abdelaziz@pharm.bsu.edu.eg.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Pharmacy, October 6
University, Cairo, 12585, Egypt.
(5)Microbiology and Immunology Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Beni-Suef
University, Beni-Suef, 62514, Egypt. Ahmed.elgendy@pharm.bsu.edu.eg.
(6)Department of Pathology & Medical Laboratory, School of Medicine, University
of Louisville, Louisville, KY, USA.

The incidence of cancer is increasing worldwide; likewise, the emergence of
antibiotic-resistant biofilm-forming pathogens has led to a tremendous increase
in morbidity and mortality. This study aimed to evaluate the probiotic properties
of bacteriocin-producing Enterococcus sp. with a focus on their anti-biofilm and 
anticancer activities. Three of 79 Enterococcus isolates (FM43, FM65, FM50) were 
identified as producers of broad-spectrum bioactive molecules and were
molecularly characterized as Enterococcus faecium by 16S rRNA sequencing.
Phenotypic and genotypic screening for potential virulence factors revealed no
factors known to promote pathogenicity. Treatment with proteinase K resulted in
diminished antimicrobial activity; PCR-based screening for bacteriocin genes
suggested the presence of both entA and entB genes that encode enterocins A and
B, respectively. Maximum antimicrobial activity was detected during the early
stationary phase, while activity disappeared after 24 h in culture. Bacteriocins 
from these isolates were stable at high temperatures and over a wide range of pH.
Interestingly, crude supernatants of Ent. faecium FM43 and Ent. faecium FM50
resulted in significant destruction (80% and 48%, respectively; P < 0.05) of
Streptococcus mutans ATCC 25175-associated preformed biofilms. Moreover, in vitro
cytotoxicity assays revealed that extracts from Ent. faecium isolates FM43, FM65,
and FM50 inhibited Caco-2 cell proliferation by 76.9%, 70%, and 85.3%,
respectively. Taken together, the multifunctional capabilities of the
microbial-derived proteins identified in our study suggest potentially important 
roles as alternative treatments for biofilm-associated infections and cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-020-09711-1 
PMID: 33010007 

