
1. J Hazard Mater. 2020 Aug 12;403:123662. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2020.123662. [Epub
ahead of print]

Facilitating harmful algae removal in fresh water via joint effects of
multi-species algicidal bacteria.

He L(1), Lin Z(1), Wang Y(1), He X(1), Zhou J(1), Guan M(1), Zhou J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of the Three Gorges Reservoir Region's Eco-Environment,
Ministry of Education, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400045, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of the Three Gorges Reservoir Region's Eco-Environment,
Ministry of Education, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400045, China. Electronic 
address: zhoujiantt@cqu.edu.cn.

Harmful algae blooms posing serious threats to the ecological environment occur
frequently across the world. Multi-species algicidal bacteria were enriched by
utilizing immobilized carriers in a pilot scale experiment, which significantly
promoted the effect of algal control in the reactors. Under the optimal
condition, the algicidal ratio and chlorophyll a degradation rate reached 87.69% 
and 47.00 μg/(L·d), respectively. The growth of Cyanophyta, diatom,
Dinoflagellate and Cryptophyta was inhibited significantly by the joint action of
algicidal bacteria and light shading of fillers, accounting for 53.74% and
36.47%, respectively. The results of 16S rRNA high-throughput sequencing
suggested algicidal bacteria (10.17%) belonging to 13 genera were enriched. Among
the algicidal process, Bacillus and Pseudomonas played crucial roles.
Fluorescence spectroscopy and UV254 were adopted to assess the release of
dissolved organic matter (DOM) and the precursors of disinfection by-products
(DBPs). Two efficient algicidal strains (C1, C4) were isolated which showed high 
homology with Enterobacter asburiae JCM6051(T) and Pseudomonas simiae oli(T),
respectively. This study provided new insights into the in-situ bioremediation of
eutrophication in fresh water.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2020.123662 
PMID: 32846260 

