
1. Food Sci Nutr. 2019 Dec 5;8(1):150-161. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.1285. eCollection 2020 
Jan.

The Man-PTS subunit ⅡC is responsible for the sensitivity of Listeria
monocytogenes to durancin GL.

Wu X(1)(2), Ju X(1)(2), Du L(2), Wang L(2), He R(2), Chen Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Food Science and Technology Jiangnan University Wuxi China.
(2)College of Food Science and Engineering Nanjing University of Finance and
Economics Nanjing China.

Target cell recognition is an important issue in the realization of bacteriocin's
activity. In this report, we provide genetic and biochemical evidence of durancin
GL, a new bacteriocin produced by Enterococcus durans 41D, and use ⅡC subunit in 
the mannose phosphotransferase system (Man-PTS) of Listeria monocytogenes as
target/receptor. First, the L. monocytogenes mutants with Man-PTS IIC or IID
deletion were constructed with the vector pHoss1. Then, the utilization of
glucose and mannose and the sensitivity to durancin GL of the mutant strains were
investigated. Afterward, the interactions between durancin GL and the subunits of
IIC or IID in Man-PTS of L. monocytogenes were characterized by yeast two-hybrid 
system. The results showed that the L. monocytogenes mutants with either IIC or
IID deletion were not only resistant to durancin GL, but also their absorption
and utilization of glucose and mannose were not disturbed by the presence of
durancin GL. Finally, in situ detection of the interaction between durancin GL
and Man-PTS subunits of IIC or IID by yeast two-hybrid system revealed that there
was a strong interaction between durancin GL and Man-PTS subunit IIC. However,
the interaction between durancin GL and Man-PTS subunit IID was not present or
weak. Based on the experimental evidence above, the Man-PTS subunit IIC is
responsible for the sensitivity of L. monocytogenes to bacteriocin durancin GL.

© 2019 The Authors. Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.1285 
PMCID: PMC6977476
PMID: 31993141 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict of
interest.

