
1. PLoS One. 2020 Jul 9;15(7):e0232860. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0232860.
eCollection 2020.

Seed biopriming with P- and K-solubilizing Enterobacter hormaechei sp. improves
the early vegetative growth and the P and K uptake of okra (Abelmoschus
esculentus) seedling.

Roslan MAM(1), Zulkifli NN(1), Sobri ZM(1), Zuan ATK(2), Cheak SC(3), Abdul
Rahman NA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioprocess Technology, Faculty of Biotechnology and Biomolecular
Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Land Management, Faculty of Agriculture, University Putra
Malaysia, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.
(3)Research and Development Center, Sime Darby Plantation Research Sdn. Bhd.,
Carey Island, Selangor, Malaysia.

Limited information is available that seed biopriming with plant growth-promoting
Enterobacter spp. play a prominent role to enhance vegetative growth of plants.
Contrary to Enterobacter cloacae, Enterobacter hormaechei is a less-studied
counterpart despite its vast potential in plant growth-promotion mainly through
the inorganic phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) solubilization abilities. To this 
end, 18 locally isolated bacterial pure cultures were screened and three strains 
showed high P- and K-solubilizing capabilities. Light microscopy, biochemical
tests and 16S rRNA gene sequencing revealed that strains 15a1 and 40a were
closely related to Enterobacter hormaechei while strain 38 was closely related to
Enterobacter cloacae (Accession number: MN294583; MN294585; MN294584). All
Enterobacter spp. shared common plant growth-promoting traits, namely nitrogen
(N2) fixation, indole-3-acetic acid production and siderophore production. The
strains 38 and 40a were able to produce gibberellic acid, while only strain 38
was able to secrete exopolysaccharide on agar. Under in vitro germination assay
of okra (Abelmoschus esculentus) seeds, Enterobacter spp. significantly improved 
overall germination parameters and vigor index (19.6%) of seedlings. The efficacy
of root colonization of Enterobacter spp. on the pre-treated seedling root tips
was confirmed using Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM). The pot experiment of
bioprimed seeds of okra seedling showed significant improvement of the plant
growth (> 28%) which corresponded to the increase of P and K uptakes (> 89%) as
compared to the uninoculated control plants. The leaf surface area and the SPAD
chlorophyll index of bioprimed plants were increased by up to 29% and 9%
respectively. This report revealed that the under-explored species of P- and
K-solubilizing Enterobacter hormaechei sp. with multiple plant beneficial traits 
presents a great potential sustainable approach for enhancement of soil fertility
and P and K uptakes of plants.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0232860 
PMCID: PMC7347142
PMID: 32645001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Sime Darby Plantation Research Sdn. Bhd. provided
support in the form of salary for M.A.M. Roslan. There are no patents, products
in development or marketed products to declare. This does not alter our adherence
to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.

