
1. Zhonghua Er Ke Za Zhi. 2020 Aug 2;58(8):640-645. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.cn112140-20200316-00239.

[Clinical characteristics of carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae infection in
pediatric liver transplantation recipients].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Sun Y(1), Zheng H(1), Zhang JL(2), Yu LX(1), Wang B(1), Gao W(1), Cai JZ(1), Liu 
YH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Transplantation, Tianjin First Central Hospital, Tianjin 300192,
China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Tianjin First Central Hospital, Tianjin
300192, China.

Objective: To explore the clinical features and treatment of carbapenem-resistant
Enterobacteriaceae (CRE) infection in pediatric liver transplantation recipients 
and discuss the significance of CRE colonization by screening with rectal swabs. 
Methods: A total of 286 cases of pediatic liver transplantation recipients, who
came from Tianjin First Central Hospital during August 1,2017 to August 1, 2018, 
were retrospectively investigated. The clinical characteristics, antibiotic
susceptibity test, treatment outcomes and prognosis of CRE infection patients
were analyzed. CRE colonization were screened by rectal swabs after liver
transplantation. All cases were divided into CRE colonization group and non-CRE
colonization group based on CRE colonization results. The high risk factors of
CRE colonization and its relationship with CRE infection were investigated. χ(2) 
test was used for the comparison between groups.The single-factor analysis was
used to screen risk factors. Results: The 286 cases included 132 male and 154
female cases. The age was (8±4) months.CRE infection rate after liver
transplantation was 7.3% (21/286). The time of CRE infection was the 5(th)
(1(th)-14(th)) days after transplantation. Abdominal infection was the most
common (95.2%, 20/21), followed by bloodstream infection (12 cases) and pulmonary
infection (8 cases). Infection in two or more sites accounted for 71.4% (15/21); 
27 CRE strains, in which 24 strains were carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella
pneumonia (88.9%), 2 strains were carbapenem-resistant Escherichia coli (7.4%)
and one strain was carbapenem-resistant Enterobacter aerogenes (3.7%). The drug
resistance rate of CRE strains to carbapenems, penicillin antibiotics, second-and
third-generation cephalosporin was 100.0%. Medication treatment included
meropenem+fosfomycin (13 cases) and meropenem+tegacycline (8 cases). The
treatment was effective in 16 cases and the time was 19 (1-27) d. The 1-year
survival rate among CRE infection group and non-CRE infection group were 71.4%
(15/21) and 98.1% (260/265), respectively (χ(2)=37.460, P<0.01). CRE infection
rate among CRE colonization group and non-CRE colonization group were 26.4%
(19/72) and 0.9% (2/214), respectively (χ(2)=51.300, P<0.01). Factors before
transplantation, including third-generation cephalosporin or carbapenems
exposure, prolonged hospital stay within 3 months, CRE infection, and factors
after transplantation, including emergency surgery, mechanical ventilation more
than 24 hours (χ(2)=20.570, 6.411, 13.960, 14.600, 9.560, all P<0.01) were high
risk factors for CRE colonization. Conclusions: The prognosis of CRE infection
after pediatric liver transplantation is poor. Timely diagnosis and treatment are
of great importance. Much attention should be paid on CRE rectal colonization and
its risk factors. Screening of CRE colonization is important for early warning
and control of CRE infection.

Publisher: 目的： 探讨儿童肝移植术后耐碳青霉烯类肠杆菌科（CRE）感染的临床特征、治疗方法以及CRE直肠定植筛查的意义。 方法：
对2017年8月1日至2018年8月1日在天津市第一中心医院行肝移植术的286例患儿进行回顾性调查，分析术后出现CRE感染患儿的临床特点、CRE药敏分析、治疗方法
以及预后。所有患儿在肝移植术后均留取直肠拭子标本调查是否存在CRE定植从而分为CRE定植组和无CRE定植组，分析CRE定植与CRE感染的关系以及CRE定植的危险因
素，组间比较应用χ(2)检验，对危险因素进行单因素分析。 结果：
286例行肝移植术患儿中男132例、女154例，年龄（8±4）月龄，术后CRE感染率为7.3%（21/286），感染时间为术后第5（1~14）天。腹腔是肝移植术后
CRE感染的最好发部位，占95.2%（20/21），其次是血流感染12例，肺部感染8例，两个及以上部位感染占71.4%（15/21）。共分离出27株CRE菌株，其
中耐碳青霉烯肺炎克雷伯菌24株（88.9%），耐碳青霉烯大肠埃希菌2株（7.4%），耐碳青霉烯产气肠杆菌1株（3.7%）。27株CRE菌株对碳青霉烯类、青霉素类、
二代及三代头孢菌素等抗菌药物耐药率均为100.0%。CRE定植组与无CRE定植组CRE感染率差异有统计学意义[26.4%（19/72）比0.9%（2/214），χ
(2)=51.300，P<0.01]。CRE定植的高危因素为术前三代头孢菌素或碳青霉烯类抗菌药物暴露、术前3个月内住院时间、术前CRE感染、术后非计划手术、术后机
械通气时间>24
h（χ(2)=20.570、6.410、13.960、14.600、9.560，P均<0.01）。治疗方案主要有美罗培南+磷霉素（13例），美罗培南+替加环素（8
例），治疗有效者共计16例，治疗时间为19（1~27）d。CRE感染组术后1年的存活率为71.4%（15/21），而无CRE感染组为98.1%（260/265），
差异有统计学意义（χ(2)=37.460，P<0.01）。 结论：
儿童肝移植术后CRE感染预后不良，需密切注意患儿有无CRE肠道定植及其相关危险因素，及时诊断并治疗，进行CRE肠道定植筛查对CRE感染的早期预警和防控具有重要意义
。.
DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112140-20200316-00239 
PMID: 32842384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

