
1. Molecules. 2020 Jul 9;25(14). pii: E3142. doi: 10.3390/molecules25143142.

Monitoring Hydroxycinnamic Acid Decarboxylation by Lactic Acid Bacteria Using
High-Throughput UV-Vis Spectroscopy.

Miyagusuku-Cruzado G(1), García-Cano I(1), Rocha-Mendoza D(1), Jiménez-Flores
R(1), Giusti MM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, The Ohio State University, 2015
Fyffe Ct., Columbus, OH 43210-1007, USA.

Hydroxycinnamic acid (HCA) decarboxylation by lactic acid bacteria (LAB) results 
in the production of 4-vinylplenols with great impact on the sensorial
characteristics of foods. The determination of LAB decarboxylating capabilities
is key for optimal strain selection for food production. The activity of LAB
strains from the Ohio State University-Parker Endowed Chair (OSU-PECh) collection
potentially capable of synthesizing phenolic acid decarboxylase was evaluated
after incubation with HCAs for 36 h at 32 °C. A high-throughput method for
monitoring HCAs decarboxylation was developed based on hypsochromic shifts at pH 
1.0. Out of 22 strains evaluated, only Enterococcus mundtii, Lactobacillus
plantarum and Pediococcus pentosaceus were capable of decarboxylating all
p-coumaric, caffeic and ferulic acids. Other strains only decarboxylated
p-coumaric and caffeic acid (6), only p-coumaric acid (2) or only caffeic acid
(1), while 10 strains did not decarboxylate any HCA. p-Coumaric acid had the
highest conversion efficiency, followed by caffeic acid and lastly ferulic acid. 
Results were confirmed by HPLC-DAD-ESI-MS analyses, showing the conversion of
HCAs into their 4-vinylphenol derivatives. This work can help improve the sensory
characteristics of HCA-rich foods where fermentation with LAB was used during
processing.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25143142 
PMCID: PMC7397179
PMID: 32660090 

