
1. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2020 Jun 23;8:450. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00450.
eCollection 2020.

Purification, Characterization, Identification, and Anticancer Activity of a
Circular Bacteriocin From Enterococcus thailandicus.

Al-Madboly LA(1), El-Deeb NM(2), Kabbash A(3), Nael MA(4), Kenawy AM(5), Ragab
AE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Microbiology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tanta
University, Tanta, Egypt.
(2)Biopharmaceutical Products Research Department, Genetic Engineering and
Biotechnology Research Institute, City of Scientific Research and Technological
Applications (SRTA-City), Alexandria, Egypt.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tanta University, Tanta,
Egypt.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tanta University,
Tanta, Egypt.
(5)Nucleic Acids Research Department, Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology
Research Institute, City of Scientific Research and Technological Applications
(SRTA-City), Alexandria, Egypt.

New anticancer agents are continually needed because cancerous cells continue to 
evolve resistance to the currently available chemotherapeutic agents. The aim of 
the present study was to screen, purify and characterize a hepatotoxic
bacteriocin from Enterococcus species. The production of bacteriocin from the
Enterococcus isolates was achieved based on their antibacterial activity against 
indicator reference strains. Enterococcus isolates showed a broad spectrum of
antibacterial activity by forming inhibition zones with diameters ranged between 
12 and 29 mm. The most potent bacteriocin producing strain was molecularly
identified as Enterococcus thailandicus. The crude extracted bacteriocin was
purified by cation exchange and size exclusion chromatography that resulted in 83
fractions. Among them, 18 factions were considered as bacteriocins based on their
positive antibacterial effects. The anticancer effects of the purified
bacteriocins were tested against HepG2 cell line. The most promising enterocin
(LNS18) showed the highest anticancer effects against HepG2 cells (with 75.24%
cellular inhibition percentages), with IC50 value 15.643 μM and without any
significant cytotoxic effects on normal fibroblast cells (BJ ATCC® CRL-2522™).
The mode of anticancer action of enterocin LNS18 against HepG2 cells could be
explained by its efficacy to induce cellular ROS, decrease HepG2 CD markers and
arrest cells in G0 phase. Amino acid sequence of enterocin LNS18 was determined
and the deduced peptide of the structural gene showed 86 amino acids that shared 
94.7% identity with enterocin NKR-5-3B from E. faecium. Enterocin LNS18 consisted
of 6 α-helices; 5 circular and one linear. Model-template alignment constructed
between enterocin LNS18 and NKR-5-3B revealed 95.31% identity. The predicted 3D
homology model of LNS18, after circularization and release of 22 amino acids,
showed the formation of a bond between Leu23 and Trp86 amino acid residues at the
site of circularization. Furthermore, areas of positive charges were due to the
presence of 6 lysine residues resulting in a net positive charge of +4 on the
bacteriocin surface. Based on the above mentioned results, our characterized
bacteriocin is a promising agent to target liver cancer without any significant
toxic effects on normal cell lines.

Copyright © 2020 Al-Madboly, El-Deeb, Kabbash, Nael, Kenawy and Ragab.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00450 
PMCID: PMC7324803
PMID: 32656185 

