
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Aug 17. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-02021-8. [Epub ahead of
print]

Antibiotic-resistant Enterobacteriaceae from diseased freshwater goldfish.

Preena PG(1), Dharmaratnam A(2), Raj NS(2), Raja SA(2), Nair RR(2), Swaminathan
TR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Peninsular and Marine Fish Genetic Resources Centre of ICAR-NBFGR, CMFRI
Campus, P.O. Number 1603, Kochi, 682018, India. preenabimal@gmail.com.
(2)Peninsular and Marine Fish Genetic Resources Centre of ICAR-NBFGR, CMFRI
Campus, P.O. Number 1603, Kochi, 682018, India.

Goldfish farming gained more attention among the ornamental fishes in aquaculture
industry. The occurrence of bacterial infections and further antimicrobial
treatment lead to the major crisis of antibiotic resistance in aquaculture. We
have isolated diverse enterobacteriaceae groups which affect the goldfish and
identified their response towards 46 antimicrobials of 15 different classes.
Thirteen significant bacterial isolates such as Edwardsiella tarda, Serratia
marcescens, Klebsiella aerogenes, Proteus penneri, P. hauseri, Enterobacter
cloacae, E. cancerogenus, E. ludwigii, Citrobacter freundii, E. coli, Kluyvera
cryocrescens, Plesiomonas shigelloides and Providencia vermicola were recovered
from the infected fish with the Shannon-wiener diversity index of 2.556. Multiple
antibiotic resistance (MAR) index was found to be maximum for P. penneri (0.87)
and minimum for C. freundii and E. cloacae (0.22), highlighting the hyper
antibiotic selection pressure in the farm. The minimum concentration of
antibiotics required to inhibit most of the resistant isolates was found to
be > 256 mcg/ml. All the isolates were susceptible towards ciprofloxacin. Plasmid
curing and further AMR tests could reveal the location of antibiotic resistance
genes mainly as plasmids which determine the large extent of AMR spread through
horizontal gene transfer. This study is the first of its kind to investigate the 
antimicrobial resistance profile of enterobacteriaceae recovered from goldfish,
before and after plasmid curing.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-02021-8 
PMID: 32803348 

