
1. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2019 Nov;26(33):33976-33987. doi:
10.1007/s11356-018-2955-5. Epub 2018 Aug 25.

Isolation and characterization of phosphate solubilizing bacteria from
rhizosphere soils of the Yeyahu Wetland in Beijing, China.

Teng Z(1), Chen Z(1), Zhang Q(1), Yao Y(1), Song M(1), Li M(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Beijing Forestry University,
60#, 35# Qinghua East Rd., Haidian District, Beijing, 100083, People's Republic
of China.
(2)College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Beijing Forestry University,
60#, 35# Qinghua East Rd., Haidian District, Beijing, 100083, People's Republic
of China. liminbjfu@126.com.

Phosphate solubilizing bacteria (PSB) can convert insoluble forms of phosphorus
(P) to accessible forms. 11 strains of PSB, including five inorganic phosphate
solubilizing bacteria (IPSBs) and six organic phosphate solubilizing bacteria
(OPSBs), were isolated from rhizosphere soils of three plants Scirpus
planiculmis, Zizania latifolia, and Phrnagmites australis in the Yeyahu Wetland
of Beijing, China to investigate P-solubilizing activities. In addition, the
distributions of P fractions in soil samples were also observed. All strains
evaluated above 1.0 by the ratio of transparent circle diameter to colony
diameter (D/d) on Ca3(PO4)2 or lecithin plates were identified by 16S rRNA
sequencing. Results showed that Ca-bound P (Ca-P) was the main species of
inorganic P (IP), and highly resistant organic P (HR-OP) accounted for the most
part of organic P (OP). These strains were identified as bacterial species of
Enterobacter asburiae, Acinetobacter sp., Bacillus cereus strain, and so on. The 
most efficient IPSB strain could convert over 430 mg L-1 orthophosphate, while
the equivalent OPSB strain only liberated less than 4 mg L-1 in liquid culture,
which indicated that IPSBs have a better P-solubilizing ability than OPSBs in
rhizosphere soils of the Yeyahu Wetland and IPSBs are likely to regulate the P
transformation process in this wetland. Graphical abstract ᅟ.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-018-2955-5 
PMID: 30145765  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

