
1. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2020 Jun 2. pii: S1499-3872(20)30110-7. doi:
10.1016/j.hbpd.2020.05.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Microbiology and risk factors for gram-positive Cocci bacteremia in biliary
infections.

Jo IH(1), Kim YJ(2), Chung WC(1), Kim J(1), Kim S(1), Lim ES(1), Ahn H(1), Ryu
SY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, St. Vincent's
Hospital, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Suwon 16247,
Korea.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, St. Vincent's
Hospital, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Suwon 16247,
Korea. Electronic address: dr.kimyj@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The rapid antibiotics treatment targeted to a specific pathogen can
improve clinical outcomes of septicemia. We aimed to evaluate the clinical
characteristics and outcomes of biliary septicemia caused by cholangitis or
cholecystitis according to causative organisms.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective cohort study in 151 patients diagnosed with
cholangitis or cholecystitis with bacterial septicemia from January 2013 to
December 2015. All patients showed clinical evidence of biliary tract infection
and had blood isolates that demonstrated septicemia.
RESULTS: Gram-negative, gram-positive, and both types of bacteria caused 84.1%
(127/151), 13.2% (20/151), and 2.6% (4/151) episodes of septicemia, respectively.
The most common infecting organisms were Escherichia coli among gram-negative
bacteria and Enterococcus species (Enterococcus casseliflavus and Enterococcus
faecalis) among gram-positive bacteria. There were no differences in mortality,
re-admission rate, and need for emergency decompression procedures between the
gram-positive and gram-negative septicemia groups. In univariate analysis,
previous gastrectomy history was associated with gram-positive bacteremia.
Multivariate analysis also showed that previous gastrectomy history was strongly 
associated with gram-positive septicemia (Odds ratio = 5.47, 95% CI: 1.19-25.23; 
P = 0.029).
CONCLUSIONS: Previous gastrectomy history was related to biliary septicemia
induced by gram-positive organisms. This information would aid the choice of
empirical antibiotics.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hbpd.2020.05.006 
PMID: 32535063 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interest No benefits in any form have
been received or will be received from a commercial party related directly or
indirectly to the subject of this article.

