
1. Plant Pathol J. 2020 Jun 1;36(3):244-254. doi: 10.5423/PPJ.OA.11.2019.0283.

Biological Control of Gom-chwi (Ligularia fischeri) Phytophthora Root Rot with
Enterobacter asburiae ObRS-5 to Suppress Zoosporangia Formation and Zoospores
Germination.

Kim(1), Lee SY(1), Ahn SH(1), Han JH(1), Park JW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Agricultural Microbiology, National Institute of Agricultural
Sciences, Rural Development Administration, Wanju 55365, Korea.

Gom-chwi (Ligularia fischeri) is severely infected with Phytophthora drechsleri, 
the causal organism of Phytophthora root rot, an economically important crop
disease that needs management throughout the cultivation period. In the present
study, Phytophthora root rot was controlled by using bacterial isolates from
rhizosphere soils collected from various plants and screened for antagonistic
activity against P. drechsleri. A total of 172 bacterial strains were isolated,
of which, 49 strains showed antagonistic activities by dual culture assay. In the
seedling assay, six out of the 49 strains showed a predominant effect on
suppressing P. drechsleri. Among the six strains, the ObRS-5 strain showed
remarkable against P. drechsleri when treated with seed dipping or soil
drenching. The ObRS-5 strain was identified as Enterobacter asburiae based on 16S
ribosomal RNA gene sequences analysis. The bacterial cells of E. asburiae ObRS-5 
significantly suppressed sporangium formation and zoospore germination in P.
drechsleri by 87.4% and 66.7%, respectively. In addition, culture filtrate of E. 
asburiae ObRS-5 also significantly inhibited sporangium formation and zoospore
germination by 97.0% and 67.6%, respectively. Soil drenched bacterial cells,
filtrate, and culture solution of E. asburiae ObRS-5 effectively suppressed
Phytophthora root rot by 63.2%, 57.9%, and 81.1%, respectively. Thus, E. asburiae
ObRS-5 could be used as a potential agent for the biological control of
Phytophthora root rot infecting gom-chwi.

Â© The Korean Society of Plant Pathology.

DOI: 10.5423/PPJ.OA.11.2019.0283 
PMCID: PMC7272845
PMID: 32547340 

