
1. Int J Antimicrob Agents. 2020 Sep;56(3):106079. doi:
10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2020.106079. Epub 2020 Jul 4.

Dissemination of a 'rare' extended-spectrum β-lactamase gene blaSFO-1 mediated by
epidemic clones of carbapenemase-producing Enterobacter hormaechei in China.

Zhou K(1), Zhou Y(2), Zhang C(3), Song J(3), Cao X(4), Yu X(2), Shen P(2), Xiao
Y(5).

Author information: 
(1)Shenzhen Institute of Respiratory Diseases, the First Affiliated Hospital
(Shenzhen People's Hospital), Southern University of Science and Technology, and 
Second Clinical Medical College, Jinan University, Shenzhen, China; State Key
Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, Collaborative
Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, the First
Affiliated Hospital of Medicine School, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases,
Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious
Diseases, the First Affiliated Hospital of Medicine School, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, China.
(3)Shenzhen Institute of Respiratory Diseases, the First Affiliated Hospital
(Shenzhen People's Hospital), Southern University of Science and Technology, and 
Second Clinical Medical College, Jinan University, Shenzhen, China.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, the Affiliated
Hospital of Nanjing University Medical School, Nanjing, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases,
Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious
Diseases, the First Affiliated Hospital of Medicine School, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, China. Electronic address: xiaoyonghong@zju.edu.cn.

An increasing trend of the coexistence of a rare extended-spectrum β-lactamase
gene blaSFO-1 and carbapenemase genes in Enterobacteriaceae has recently been
noted. This study aimed to determine the epidemiological and genetic
characterisation of SFO-1-positive carbapenem-resistant Enterobacter cloacae
complex (CREC) isolates. A total of 61 CREC clinical isolates were collected in
the framework of a national surveillance for carbapenem-resistant
Enterobacteriaceae during 2011-2015 in China. Seven SFO-1-positive CREC isolates 
(11.5%) were identified in four provinces, suggesting a wide dissemination of the
blaSFO-1 gene among the CREC population in China. Five SFO-1-positive CREC
isolates were further identified by screening 1625 genomes of E. cloacae complex 
strains retrieved from GenBank. The 12 SFO-1-positive CREC isolates were further 
identified as Enterobacter hormaechei, of which 10 belonged to epidemic clones
(ST93, ST114 and ST418), indicating that these clones might largely contribute to
the dissemination of blaSFO-1. Phylogenomics analysis further identified the
occurrence of clonal dissemination in the community setting. The blaSFO-1-bearing
plasmids were assigned to various incompatibility groups with highly diverse
sizes (~104-370 kb), suggesting a wide vector range of blaSFO-1. Two types of
genetic context, with and without insertion sequence IS26, were identified for
the blaSFO-1 gene. The genetic context flanked by IS26 was more prevalent, thus
largely facilitating the mobility of blaSFO-1. This study revealed that the
blaSFO-1 gene is not as rare as previously found and that epidemic clones of CREC
are responsible for its dissemination in China. These findings highlight the
potential of wide dissemination of low-prevalence antimicrobial resistance genes.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2020.106079 
PMID: 32634604 

