
1. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2020 Oct 3. doi: 10.1007/s12010-020-03330-w. [Epub ahead
of print]

Mechanisms of Action of Luteolin Against Single- and Dual-Species of Escherichia 
coli and Enterobacter cloacae and Its Antibiofilm Activities.

Qian W(1), Fu Y(2), Liu M(2), Zhang J(2), Wang W(2), Li J(2), Zeng Q(2), Wang
T(2), Li Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Shaanxi University of Science and
Technology, Xi'an, 710021, People's Republic of China. qianweidong@sust.edu.cn.
(2)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Shaanxi University of Science and
Technology, Xi'an, 710021, People's Republic of China.
(3)Ningbo Municipal Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Ningbo, 315010,
People's Republic of China.

Escherichia coli and Enterobacter cloacae are major foodborne pathogens and can
form challenging single/mixed biofilms. A recent study demonstrated that luteolin
(LUT) exhibits antibacterial activities against some pathogens; however, the
mechanisms underlying the effects of LUT on planktonic and biofilm bacteria have 
never been fully elucidated. This study aimed to determine the antibacterial
activity and its mechanism of action against E. coli and E. cloacae. Here, the
antimicrobial mode of LUT was explored by evaluating alterations in both cell
membrane integrity and cell morphology, and the antibiofilm activity of LUT was
investigated using quantitative and qualitative assays. The results showed that
minimal inhibitory concentration and minimum bactericidal concentration values of
LUT against E. coli were 64 and 128 μg/mL and 128 and 256 μg/mL for E. cloacae
mono- and dual-species, respectively. LUT impaired cell membrane integrity, as
demonstrated by the remarkable increase in the number of membrane-damaged cells
and definite variations in cell morphology. Moreover, LUT presented robust
inhibitory effects on biofilm formation and the capacity to kill mono- and
dual-species biofilm cells. Overall, these data show the potential benefit of
using a natural antimicrobial and/or preservative in the food industry, LUT, to
control mono- and mixed-species or biofilm-associated infections.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-020-03330-w 
PMID: 33009585 

