
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Aug 14;11:1940. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01940. eCollection 
2020.

Emergence of Carbapenem- and Tigecycline-Resistant Proteus cibarius of Animal
Origin.

Li Y(1), Wang Q(1), Peng K(1), Liu Y(1)(2)(3), Li R(1)(2)(3), Wang Z(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, China.
(2)Institute of Comparative Medicine, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, China.
(3)Jiangsu Co-innovation Center for Prevention and Control of Important Animal
Infectious Diseases and Zoonoses, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, China.

The emergence of tet(X) and carbapenemase genes in Enterobacterales pose
significant challenges to the treatment of infectious diseases. Convergence of
these two categories of genes in an individual pathogen would deteriorate the
antimicrobial resistance (AMR) crisis furthermore. Here, tigecycline-resistant
Enterobacterales strains were isolated and detected with carbapenemase genes,
characterized by antimicrobial susceptibility testing, PCR, conjugation assay,
whole genome sequencing, and bioinformatics analysis. Three tigecycline-resistant
isolates consisting of one plasmid-mediated tet(X4)-bearing Escherichia
fergusonii and two chromosomal tet(X6)-bearing Proteus cibarius were recovered
from chicken feces. The tet(X4) was located on a conjugative IncX1 plasmid
pHNCF11W-tetX4 encoding the identical structure as reported tet(X4)-bearing IncX1
plasmids in Escherichia coli. Among two P. cibarius strains, tet(X6) was located 
on two similar chromosomal MDR regions with genetic contexts
IS26-aac(3)-IVa-aph(4)-Ia-ISEc59-tnpA-tet(X6)-orf-orf-ISCR2-virD2-floR-ISCR2-glmM
-sul2 and IS26-aac(3)-IVa-aph(4)-Ia-ISEc59-tnpA-tet(X6)-orf-orf-ISCR2-glmM-sul2. 
Apart from tet(X6), P. cibarius HNCF44W harbored a novel transposon Tn6450b
positive for bla NDM- 1 on a conjugative plasmid. This study probed the genomic
basis of three tet(X)-bearing, tigecycline-resistant strains, one of which
coharbored bla NDM- 1 and tet(X6), and identified P. cibarius as the important
reservoir of tet(X6) variants. Emergence of P. cibarius encoding both bla NDM- 1 
and tet(X6) reveals a potential public health risk.

Copyright Â© 2020 Li, Wang, Peng, Liu, Li and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01940 
PMCID: PMC7457074
PMID: 32922378 

