
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Feb;139:103928. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2019.103928. Epub 2019
Dec 13.

Gold nanoparticles synthesised by flavonoid tricetin as a potential antibacterial
nanomedicine to treat respiratory infections causing opportunistic bacterial
pathogens.

Alsamhary K(1), Al-Enazi N(2), Alshehri WA(3), Ameen F(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, College of Science and Humanities in Al-Kharj, Prince
Sattam Bin Abdulaziz University, Al-kharj, 11942, Saudi Arabia. Electronic
address: K.alsamhary@psau.edu.sa.
(2)Department of Biology, College of Science and Humanities in Al-Kharj, Prince
Sattam Bin Abdulaziz University, Al-kharj, 11942, Saudi Arabia.
(3)University of Jeddah, College of Science, Department of Biology, Jeddah, Saudi
Arabia.
(4)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Science, King Saud
University, Riyadh, 11451, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address:
fuadameen@ksu.edu.sa.

In this study, flavonoid tricetin was used as a reducing and capping agent for
the synthesis of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs). Further, the antibacterial efficacy 
of the synthesised AuNPs was evaluated against the opportunistic bacterial
pathogens that cause respiratory infections. The optimum levels for the synthesis
of AuNPs were found to be pH 8, temperature 30 °C, tricetin 125 μM and
chloroauric acid 250 μM. The tricetin synthesised AuNPs exhibited in spherical
shape with an average size of 12 nm. FT-IR results confirmed that the hydroxyl
(OH) and carbonyl (CO) groups of tricetin were mainly participated in the
synthesis of AuNPs. The opportunistic bacterial pathogens isolated from
immunocompromised patients suffering with different respiratory infections were
identified as Staphylococcus aureus, Enterobacter xiangfangensis, Bacillus
licheniformis, Escherichia fergusonii, Acinetobacter pittii, Pseudomonas
aeruginosa, Aeromonas enteropelogenes and Proteus mirabilis. The antibacterial
studies confirmed the broad-spectrum antibacterial activity of AuNPs against the 
tested Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. The synthesised AuNPs showed
high biocompatibility on primary normal human dermal fibroblast (NHDF-c) cells up
to 50 μM mL-1. Best of our knowledge, this is the first report on the synthesis
of AuNPs using tricetin, which may be a potential antibacterial nanomedicine to
treat bacterial infections.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2019.103928 
PMID: 31843547 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

