
1. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2020 Oct 1:108615. doi: 10.1016/j.abb.2020.108615. [Epub
ahead of print]

Preferential modification of CyaA-hemolysin by CyaC-acyltransferase through the
catalytic Ser30-His33 dyad in esterolysis of palmitoyl-donor substrate devoid of 
acyl carrier proteins.

Yentongchai M(1), Thamwiriyasati N(2), Imtong C(3), Li HC(4), Angsuthanasombat
C(5).

Author information: 
(1)Bacterial Toxin Research Innovation Cluster (BRIC), Institute of Molecular
Biosciences, Mahidol University, Salaya Campus, Nakornpathom, 73170, Thailand.
(2)Molecular Medicine Research Group (MMRG), Division of Medical Technology,
Faculty of Allied Health Sciences, Burapha University, Chonburi, 20131, Thailand.
Electronic address: niramon@go.buu.ac.th.
(3)Division of Biology, Department of Science, Faculty of Science and Technology,
Prince of Songkla University, Pattani, 94000, Thailand.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Tzu Chi University, Hualian,
97004, Taiwan.
(5)Bacterial Toxin Research Innovation Cluster (BRIC), Institute of Molecular
Biosciences, Mahidol University, Salaya Campus, Nakornpathom, 73170, Thailand;
Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Tzu Chi University, Hualian,
97004, Taiwan; Laboratory of Synthetic Biophysics and Chemical Biology,
Biophysics Institute for Research and Development (BIRD), Chiang Mai, 50230,
Thailand. Electronic address: chanan.ang@mahidol.ac.th.

We previously demonstrated that the ∼130-kDa CyaA-hemolysin domain (CyaA-Hly)
from Bordetella pertussis co-expressed with CyaC-acyltransferase in Escherichia
coli was acylated at Lys983 and thus activated its hemolytic activity. Here,
attempts were made to provide greater insights into such toxin activation via
fatty-acyl modification by CyaC-acyltransferase. Non-acylated CyaA-Hly
(NA/CyaA-Hly) and CyaC were separately expressed in E. coli and subsequently
purified by FPLC to near homogeneity. When effects of acyl-chain length were
comparatively evaluated through CyaC-esterolysis using various p-nitrophenyl
(pNP) derivatives, Michaelis-Menten steady-state kinetic parameters (KM and kcat)
of CyaC-acyltransferase revealed a marked preference for myristoyl (C14:0) and
palmitoyl (C16:0) substrates of which catalytic efficiencies (kcat/KM) were
roughly the same (∼1.5 × 103 s-1mM-1). However, pNP-palmitate (pNPP) gave the
highest hemolytic activity of NA/CyaA-Hly after being acylated in vitro with a
range of acyl-donor substrates. LC-MS/MS analysis confirmed such CyaC-mediated
palmitoylation of CyaA-Hly occurring at Lys983, denoting no requirement of an
acyl carrier protein (ACP). A homology-based CyaC structure inferred a role of a 
potential catalytic dyad of conserved Ser30 and His33 residues in substrate
esterolysis. CyaC-ligand binding analysis via molecular docking corroborated
high-affinity binding of palmitate with its carboxyl group oriented toward such a
dyad. Ala-substitutions of each residue (S30A or H33A) caused a drastic decrease 
in kcat/KM of CyaC toward pNPP, and hence its catalytic malfunction through
palmitoylation-dependent activation of NA/CyaA-Hly. Altogether, our present data 
evidently provide such preferential palmitoylation of CyaA-Hly by
CyaC-acyltransferase through the enzyme Ser30-His33 nucleophile-activation dyad
in esterolysis of palmitoyl-donor substrate, particularly devoid of a natural
acyl-ACP donor.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.abb.2020.108615 
PMID: 33011179 

