
1. PLoS One. 2019 Dec 31;14(12):e0226828. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0226828.
eCollection 2019.

Decreasing prevalence of contamination with extended-spectrum
beta-lactamase-producing Enterobacteriaceae (ESBL-E) in retail chicken meat in
the Netherlands.

Huizinga P(1)(2), Kluytmans-van den Bergh M(1)(3)(4), Rossen JW(5), Willemsen
I(1), Verhulst C(1), Savelkoul PHM(6)(7), Friedrich AW(5), Garc√≠a-Cobos S(5),
Kluytmans J(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection Control, Amphia Hospital, Breda, the Netherlands.
(2)Laboratory for Medical Microbiology and Immunology, Elisabeth-TweeSteden
Hospital, Tilburg, the Netherlands.
(3)Amphia Academy Infectious Disease Foundation, Amphia Hospital, Breda, the
Netherlands.
(4)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht University, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(5)University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Department of
Medical Microbiology and Infection Prevention, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(6)Maastricht University Medical Center, Caphri School for Public Health and
Primary Care, Department of Medical Microbiology, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(7)Amsterdam University Medical Center, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Department 
of Medical Microbiology & Infection Control, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

Retail chicken meat is a potential source of extended-spectrum
beta-lactamase-producing Enterobacteriaceae (ESBL-E). In the past decade, vast
national efforts were undertaken to decrease the antibiotic use in the veterinary
sector, resulting in a 58% decrease in antibiotic sales in the sector between
2009 and 2014. This decrease in antibiotic use was followed by a decrease in
ESBL-E prevalence in broilers. The current study investigates the prevalence of
contamination with ESBL-E in retail chicken meat purchased in the Netherlands
between December 2013 and August 2015. It looks at associations between the
prevalence of contamination with ESBL-E and sample characteristics such as method
of farming (free-range or conventional), supermarket chain of purchase and year
of purchase. In the current study, 352 chicken meat samples were investigated for
the presence of ESBL-E using selective culture methods. Six samples were excluded
due to missing isolates or problems obtaining a good quality sequence leaving 346
samples for further analyses. Of these 346 samples, 188 (54.3%) were positive for
ESBL-E, yielding 216 ESBL-E isolates (Escherichia coli (n = 204), Klebsiella
pneumoniae (n = 11) and Escherichia fergusonii (n = 1)). All ESBL-E isolates were
analysed using whole-genome sequencing. The prevalence of contamination with
ESBL-E in retail chicken meat decreased from 68.3% in 2014 to 44.6% in 2015,
absolute risk difference 23.7% (95% confidence interval (CI): 12.6% - 34.1%). The
ESBL-E prevalence was lower in free-range chicken meat (36.4%) compared with
conventional chicken meat (61.5%), absolute risk difference 25.2% (95% CI: 12.9% 
- 36.5%). The prevalence of contamination with ESBL-E varied between supermarket 
chains, the highest prevalence of contamination was found in supermarket chain 4 
(76.5%) and the lowest in supermarket chain 1 (37.8%). Pairwise isolate
comparisons using whole-genome multilocus sequence typing (wgMLST) showed that
clustering of isolates occurs more frequently within supermarket chains than
between supermarket chains. In conclusion, the prevalence of contamination with
ESBL-E in retail chicken in the Netherlands decreased over time; nevertheless, it
remains substantial and as such a potential source for ESBL-E in humans.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0226828 
PMCID: PMC6938319
PMID: 31891609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

