
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 May;104(9):4109-4126. doi:
10.1007/s00253-020-10498-y. Epub 2020 Mar 5.

Bat guano-dwelling microbes and antimicrobial properties of the pygidial gland
secretion of a troglophilic ground beetle against them.

Dimkić I(1), Stanković S(2), Kabić J(2), Stupar M(2), Nenadić M(2),
Ljaljević-Grbić M(2), Žikić V(3), Vujisić L(4), Tešević V(4), Vesović N(2),
Pantelić D(5), Savić-Šević S(5), Vukojević J(2), Ćurčić S(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Belgrade - Faculty of Biology, Studentski Trg 16, Belgrade,
11000, Serbia. ivicad@bio.bg.ac.rs.
(2)University of Belgrade - Faculty of Biology, Studentski Trg 16, Belgrade,
11000, Serbia.
(3)Department of Biology and Ecology, University of Niš - Faculty of Science and 
Mathematics, Višegradska 33, Niš, 18000, Serbia.
(4)University of Belgrade - Faculty of Chemistry, Studentski Trg 12-16, Belgrade,
11000, Serbia.
(5)University of Belgrade - Institute of Physics, Pregrevica 118, Belgrade,
11080, Serbia.

Bat guano is an important source of microbial diversity in caves and can be a
source of potential pathogens. Laemostenus (Pristonychus) punctatus is a
guanophilic ground beetle species, which pygidial gland secretion exhibits action
against pathogenic and other microbes. The distribution and diversity of microbes
in bat guano from a karstic cave were determined in this study. Additionally,
antimicrobial activity of the pygidial gland secretion of L. (P.) punctatus
against guano-dwelling microbes was tested; minimal inhibitory concentration
(MIC) and chemical composition of the secretion were analyzed. In total, 63
different bacterial species and 16 fungal morphotypes were isolated from guano
samples by the cultivation method and confirmed using and phenotypic
characterization and molecular identification. There was a difference in the
composition of certain microorganisms between the sampling points (cave
locations) and between the guano layers. The largest number of bacterial isolates
belongs to the genera Lysinibacillus and Paenibacillus, while Pseudomonas species
were highly abundant at the innermost sampling point. For the guanophilic fungi, 
the majority are ascomycetes, with Penicillium and Aspergillus as the most
dominant genera. Meyerozyma guilliermondii was the only yeast species found in
the guano samples. The most sensitive isolates were Enterococcus eurekensis (MIC 
0.007 mg/mL) and Escherichia fergusonii (MIC 0.028 mg/mL). The most sensitive
fungal isolates were M. guilliermondii, Penicillium expansum, and Trichoderma
harzianum (MIC 0.15 mg/mL). This study opens a new possibility for better
understanding of ecological relations between microorganisms and troglophilic
ground beetles and for detailed investigations of morpho-anatomical aspects of
pygidial glands.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10498-y 
PMID: 32140841 

