
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Sep 30;9(10). pii: E662. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9100662.

Antimicrobial Resistance in Fecal Escherichia coli from Humans and Pigs at Farms 
at Different Levels of Intensification.

Lunha K(1), Leangapichart T(2), Jiwakanon J(3), Angkititrakul S(3), Sunde M(2),
Järhult JD(4), Ström Hallenberg G(1), Hickman RA(5), Van Boeckel T(6)(7),
Magnusson U(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, 
SE-750 07 Uppsala, Sweden.
(2)Section for Food Safety and AMR, Norwegian Veterinary Institute, N-0106 Oslo, 
Norway.
(3)Research Group for Animal Health Technology, Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen
40002, Thailand.
(4)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, SE-751 85 Uppsala, Sweden.
(5)Department of Biomedical Chemistry and Microbiology, Uppsala University,
SE-752 37 Uppsala, Sweden.
(6)Institute for Environmental Decisions, ETH, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland.
(7)Center for Diseases Dynamics Economics and Policy, Washington, DC 20005, USA.

The overall aim of the current study was to test the hypotheses that (i)
antibiotic resistance in bacteria were more frequent in clinically health pigs in
intensified company owned, medium-scale farms (MSFs) (100-500 sows) than in pigs 
in family-owned, small-scale farms (SSFs) (1-50 sows) and (ii) that farmers
working at the MSFs were more prone to attain antibiotic resistant bacteria than 
farmers working at SSFs. The study was conducted in North-Eastern Thailand,
comprising fecal Escherichia coli isolates from pigs, farmers working with the
pigs (contact humans) and persons living in the same household as the farmer
(non-contact humans) at 51 MSFs and 113 SSFs. Samples from all farms were also
screened for methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), which was not
detected in pig samples, but was found in one human sample. Susceptibility was
tested by disc-diffusion for seven antibiotics commonly used in the study area.
Resistance in pig isolates from MSFs were more frequent for chloramphenicol which
(P < 0.001), trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (P < 0.001) and gentamicin (P < 0.05) 
compared with isolates from SSFs, whereas the opposite was true for tetracycline 
(P < 0.01). Resistance in the human isolates was lower than those in the isolates
from pigs for tetracycline, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and chloramphenicol (P 
< 0.001). The frequency of resistance in the contact human samples from SSFs and 
MSFs did not differ. There was no difference between isolates from contact and
non-contact humans for any of the tested antibiotics. Multidrug resistance in
isolates from pigs was 26%, significantly higher (P < 0.01) than the 13% from
humans. The data indicate that (i) resistance to antibiotics, including those
critical and highly important for human medicine, were more common in fecal E.
coli from pigs at the MSFs than at the SSFs, whereas (ii) the resistance in fecal
E. coli from pig farmers seemed not to be influenced by the level of
intensification of the farm they were working at.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9100662 
PMID: 33008077 

