
1. Cir Cir. 2020;88(Suppl 1):51-53. doi: 10.24875/CIRU.20001455.

Escherichia fergusonii in a patient with a traumatic amputation of the right
pelvic limb.

Vanegas-Rodríguez ÉS(1), López-Jácome LE(1), Becerra-Lobato N(1), Colín-Castro
CA(1), Franco-Cendejas R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Infectología, Instituto Nacional de Rehabilitación, Ciudad de
México, México.

El nombre de Escherichia fergusonii es en honor del microbiólogo William H.
Ferguson. Es un bacilo gramnegativo, móvil, oxidasa negativo, catalasa positivo, 
reductor de nitrato y fermentador, oportunista que se asocia a infecciones de
sitio quirúrgico. Una niña de 12 años fue remitida a un servicio de urgencias
ortopédicas en la Ciudad de México con amputación traumática de la extremidad
pélvica derecha. Tenía exposición ósea y requirió varios desbridamientos
quirúrgicos. En el hueso y el tejido muscular se aisló E. fergusonii solo
resistente a trimetoprima-sulfametoxazol y ampicilina, más otros gérmenes.
Recibió un mes de ertapenem más ampicilina, con marcada mejoría.The name of
Escherichia fergusonii was in honor of the microbiologist William H. Ferguson. It
is a gram-negative rod, motile, oxidase negative,catalase positive, nitrate
reducing and fermenter. Opportunistic that is associated with surgical site
infections. A 12-year-old girl was referred to an orthopedic emergency department
in Mexico City with a traumatic amputation of the right leg, she had bone
exposure and required several surgical debridements. From bone and soft tissue
samples we isolated E. fergusonii only resistant to trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole
and ampicillin, and other germs. She received a month of ertapenem plus
ampicillin with marked improvement.

Copyright: © 2020 Permanyer.

DOI: 10.24875/CIRU.20001455 
PMID: 32963402 

