
1. Microorganisms. 2020 May 6;8(5). pii: E677. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8050677.

The Bacterial Gut Microbiota of Adult Patients Infected, Colonized or
Noncolonized by Clostridioides difficile.

Crobach MJT(1), Ducarmon QR(1)(2), Terveer EM(1)(2)(3), Harmanus C(1), Sanders
IMJG(1), Verduin KM(4), Kuijper EJ(1)(2)(3), Zwittink RD(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Bacteriology, Department of Medical Microbiology, Center for
Infectious Diseases, Leiden University Medical Center, 2333ZA Leiden, The
Netherlands.
(2)Center for Microbiome Analyses and Therapeutics, Department of Medical
Microbiology, Center for Infectious Diseases, Leiden University Medical Center,
2333ZA Leiden, The Netherlands.
(3)Netherlands Donor Feces Bank, 2333ZA Leiden, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Infection Prevention, Amphia Hospital, 4818CK
Breda, The Netherlands.

: Gut microbiota composition in patients with Clostridioides difficile
colonization is not well investigated. We aimed to identify bacterial signatures 
associated with resistance and susceptibility to C. difficile colonization (CDC) 
and infection (CDI). Therefore, gut microbiota composition from patients with CDC
(n = 41), with CDI (n = 41), and without CDC (controls, n = 43) was determined
through 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Bacterial diversity was decreased in
CDC and CDI patients (p<0.01). Overall microbiota composition was significantly
different between control, CDC, and CDI patients (p = 0.001). Relative abundance 
of Clostridioides (most likely C. difficile) increased stepwise from controls to 
CDC and CDI patients. In addition, differential abundance analysis revealed that 
CDI patients' gut microbiota was characterized by significantly higher relative
abundance of Bacteroides and Veillonella than CDC patients and controls. Control 
patients had significantly higher Eubacterium hallii and Fusicatenibacter
abundance than colonized patients. Network analysis indicated that
Fusicatenibacter was negatively associated with Clostridioides in CDI patients,
while Veillonella was positively associated with Clostridioides in CDC patients. 
Bacterial microbiota diversity decreased in both CDC and CDI patients, but
harbored a distinct microbiota. Eubacterium hallii and Fusicatenibacter may
indicate resistance against C. difficile colonization and subsequent infection,
while Veillonella may indicate susceptibility to colonization and infection by C.
difficile.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8050677 
PMCID: PMC7284656
PMID: 32384826 

Conflict of interest statement: E.T. and E.K. are supported by an unrestricted
grant from Vedanta Biosciences Inc. The sponsor had no role in the design,
execution, interpretation, or writing of the study.

