
1. Biochem Eng J. 2019 Nov 15;151. pii: 107338. doi: 10.1016/j.bej.2019.107338. Epub
2019 Aug 13.

Metabolic modeling of bacterial co-culture systems predicts enhanced carbon
monoxide-to-butyrate conversion compared to monoculture systems.

Li X(1), Henson MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Institute for Applied Life Sciences,
University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, 01003, USA.

We used metabolic modeling to computationally investigate the potential of
bacterial coculture system designs for CO conversion to the platform chemical
butyrate. By taking advantage of the native capabilities of wild-type strains, we
developed two anaerobic coculture designs by combining Clostridium
autoethanogenum for CO-to-acetate conversion with bacterial strains that offer
high acetate-to-butyrate conversion capabilities: the environmental bacterium the
human gut bacteriumEubacterium rectale. When grown in continuous stirred tank
reactor on a 70/0/30 CO/H2/N2 gas mixture, the C. autoethanogenum-C Kluyveri
co-culture was predicted to offer no mprovement in butyrate volumetric
productivity compared to an engineered C. autoethanogenum monoculture despite
utilizing vinyl acetate as a secondary carbon source for C. kluyveri growth
enhancement. A coculture consisting of C. autoethanogenum and C. kluyveri
engineered in silico to eliminate hexanoate synthesis was predicted to enhance
both butyrate productivity and titer. The C. autoethanogenum-E. rectale coculture
offered similar improvements in butyrate productivity without the need for
metabolic engineering when glucose was provided as a secondary carbon source to
enhance E. rectale growth. A bubble column model developed to assess the
potential for large-scale butyrate production of the C. autoethanogenum-E.
rectale design predicted that a 40/30/30 CO/H2/N2 gas mixture and a 5 m column
length would be preferred to enhance C. autoethanogenum growth and counteract CO 
inhibitory effects on E. rectale.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bej.2019.107338 
PMCID: PMC7449128 [Available on 2020-11-15]
PMID: 32863734 

