
1. J Diabetes Res. 2019 Oct 23;2019:6081248. doi: 10.1155/2019/6081248. eCollection 
2019.

The Gut Microbiota in Women Suffering from Gestational Diabetes Mellitus with the
Failure of Glycemic Control by Lifestyle Modification.

Ye G(1), Zhang L(1), Wang M(1), Chen Y(2), Gu S(2), Wang K(3), Leng J(3), Gu
Y(1), Xie X(4).

Author information: 
(1)Women's Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, China.
(2)The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, China.
(3)Central Laboratory, Affiliated Hangzhou First People's Hospital, Zhejiang
University School of Medicine, China.
(4)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, Zhejiang
University School of Medicine, China.

Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is prevalent worldwide, leading to a high
risk of significant morbidity for both the mother and offspring with
complications. Increasing evidences suggest that gut microbiota plays a role in
the pathogenesis of GDM. Lifestyle modification is the cornerstones of GDM
treatment. However, a number of patients whose blood glucose is not controlled by
lifestyle modification still require exogenous insulin to control blood glucose. 
No observational study is available about the relationship between the gut
microbiota in GDM patients and lifestyle modifications. Thus, we investigated the
differences in gut microbiota between GDM patients with successful glycemic
control (GDM1) and failure of glycemic control (GDM2) by lifestyle modifications.
We sequenced the V3-V4 regions of 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) gene from
stool samples of 52 singleton pregnant women with 24-28 weeks of gestation. Our
results showed that Blautia, Eubacterium_hallii_group, and Faecalibacterium in
the gut microbiota showed significant differences among the normoglycemic mother,
GDM1, and GDM2 groups, respectively. The combined diagnostic performance of
Blautia, Eubacterium_hallii_group, and Faecalibacterium in differentiating GDM2
from GDM was considered as the most reasonable identification indicator. Gut
bacteria may participate in the pathological development of GDM2 through the
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathway. These
results indicated that Blautia, Eubacterium_hallii_group, and Faecalibacterium
had important characteristic changes in the gut microbiota of women with GDM2.

Copyright Â© 2019 Guangyong Ye et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2019/6081248 
PMCID: PMC6854930
PMID: 31772944  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

