
1. Food Funct. 2019 Dec 11;10(12):7973-7982. doi: 10.1039/c9fo01490j.

Habitual animal fat consumption in shaping gut microbiota and microbial
metabolites.

Wan Y (1), Tong W , Zhou R , Li J , Yuan J , Wang F , Li D .

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Nutrition and Health, Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266071, China.
duoli@qdu.edu.cn.

Short-term intervention studies support a link between animal-based diet and the 
outgrowth of microorganisms capable of triggering inflammatory bowel disease.
However, whether habitual animal fat intake is associated with gut-related health
remains unclear. Thus, we collected dietary information, clinical data and fecal 
samples from 297 healthy young subjects and characterized gut microbiota by 16S
rRNA gene sequencing and microbial metabolites, including short-chain fatty acids
(SCFAs) and bile acids (BAs) using a gas chromatography coupled to time-of-flight
mass spectrometry (GC-TOF/MS) system and ultra performance liquid chromatography 
coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) platform, respectively. We
found that the microbial diversity of butyric acid (rho = -0.17, p = 0.004 for
the Shannon index) and the concentrations of butyric acid (rho = -0.33, p <
0.001) and valeric acid (rho = -0.28, p = 0.002) were negatively associated with 
animal fat consumption. In line with this, the abundance of SCFAs-producing
bacteria such as Blautia, Eubacterium hallii, and Megamonas were significantly
lower in the high animal fat group compared with the low animal fat group (all p 
< 0.05). Additionally, the high animal fat group had higher concentrations of
total (p = 0.06) and unconjugated (p = 0.09) BAs relative to the lower animal fat
groups. The findings of our study indicate that a diet with higher animal-based
fat consumption is likely to be associated with moderately unfavorable impacts on
gut microbial diversity, community, and regulation of fecal SCFAs, which may
influence the host cardiometabolic health in the long term among healthy Chinese 
adults whose diet is in a nutrition transition.

DOI: 10.1039/c9fo01490j 
PMID: 31776537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

