
1. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2020;60(11):1783-1796. doi:
10.1080/10408398.2019.1599812. Epub 2019 May 7.

Evolving trends in next-generation probiotics: a 5W1H perspective.

Almeida D(1)(2), Machado D(1), Andrade JC(3), Mendo S(2), Gomes AM(1), Freitas
AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Católica Portuguesa, CBQF - Centro de Biotecnologia e Química
Fina - Laboratório Associado, Escola Superior de Biotecnologia, Porto, Portugal.
(2)Department of Biology and CESAM, University of Aveiro, Aveiro, Portugal.
(3)CESPU, Instituto de Investigação e Formação Avançada em Ciências e Tecnologias
da Saúde, Gandra PRD, Portugal.

In recent years, scientific community has been gathering increasingly more
insight on the dynamics that are at play in metabolic and inflammatory disorders.
These rapidly growing conditions are reaching epidemic proportions, bringing
clinicians and researcher's new challenges. The specific roles and modulating
properties that beneficial/probiotic bacteria hold in the context of the gut
ecosystem seem to be key to avert these inflammatory and diet-related disorders. 
Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Akkermansia muciniphila and Eubacterium hallii have
been identified as candidates for next generation probiotics (NGPs) with exciting
potential for the prevention and treatment of such of dysbiosis-associated
diseases. The challenges of these non-conventional native gut bacteria lie mainly
on their extreme sensitivity to O2 traces. If these strains are to be used
successfully in food, supplements or drugs they need to be stable and active in
humans. In the present review, we present an overall perspective of the most
updated scientific literature on the newly called NGPs through the 5W1H (What,
Why, Who, Where, When, and How) method, an innovative and attractive
problem-solving approach that provides the reader an effective understanding of
the issue at hand.

DOI: 10.1080/10408398.2019.1599812 
PMID: 31062600  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

