
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Jun;70(6):3656-3664. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004215.
Epub 2020 May 14.

Amedibacterium intestinale gen. nov., sp. nov., isolated from human faeces, and
reclassification of Eubacterium dolichum Moore et al. 1976 (Approved Lists 1980) 
as Amedibacillus dolichus gen. nov., comb. nov.

Ikeyama N(1), Toyoda A(2), Morohoshi S(3), Kunihiro T(3), Murakami T(2), Mori
H(2), Iino T(1), Ohkuma M(1), Sakamoto M(4)(1).

Author information: 
(1)Microbe Division/Japan Collection of Microorganisms, RIKEN BioResource
Research Center, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0074, Japan.
(2)Advanced Genomics Center, National Institute of Genetics, Mishima, Shizuoka
411-8540, Japan.
(3)TechnoSuruga Laboratory Co. Ltd, 330 Nagasaki, Shimizu-ku, Shizuoka-shi,
Shizuoka 424-0065, Japan.
(4)PRIME, Japan Agency for Medical Research and Development (AMED), Tsukuba,
Ibaraki 305-0074, Japan.

Four strains (9CBEGH2T, 9BBH35, 6BBH38 and 6EGH11) of Gram-stain-positive,
obligately anaerobic, rod-shaped bacteria were isolated from faecal samples from 
healthy Japanese humans. The results of 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis indicated
that the four strains represented members of the family Erysipelotrichaceae and
formed a monophyletic cluster with 'Absiella argi' strain N6H1-5 (99.4% sequence 
similarity) and Eubacterium sp. Marseille-P5640 (99.3 %). Eubacterium dolichum
JCM 10413T (94.2 %) and Eubacterium tortuosum ATCC 25548T (93.7 %) were located
near this monophyletic cluster. The isolates, 9CBEGH2T, 'A. argi' JCM 30884 and
Eubacterium sp. Marseille-P5640 shared 98.7-99.1% average nucleotide identity
(ANI) with each other. Moreover, the in silico DNA-DNA hybridization (DDH) values
among three strains were 88.4-90.6%, indicating that these strains represent the 
same species. Strain 9CBEGH2T showed 21.5-24.1 % in silico DDH values with other 
related taxa. In addition, the ANI values between strain 9CBEGH2T and other
related taxa ranged from 71.2 % to 73.5 %, indicating that this strain should be 
considered as representing a novel species on the basis of whole-genome
relatedness. Therefore, we formally propose a novel name for 'A. argi' strains
identified because the name 'A. argi' has been effectively, but not validly,
published since 2017. On the basis of the collected data, strain 9CBEGH2T
represents a novel species of a novel genus, for which the name Amedibacterium
intestinale gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of A. intestinale is
9CBEGH2T (=JCM 33778T=DSM 110575T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004215 
PMID: 32416738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

