
1. J Agric Food Chem. 2020 Feb 28. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.9b08309. [Epub ahead of
print]

Dietary Pattern, Gut Microbiota, and Alzheimer's Disease.

Zhang M(1), Zhao D(1), Zhou G(1), Li C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Meat Processing and Quality Control, Ministry of Education, 
Key Laboratory of Meat Processing, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs,
Jiangsu Synergistic Innovation Center of Meat Processing and Quality Control,
College of Food Science and Technology, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing,
Jiangsu 210095, People's Republic of China.

Alzheimer's disease is the most common neurodegenerative disease. Until now,
there has been no specific medicine that can cure Alzheimer's disease or
effectively reverse the disease process. A good dietary pattern is an efficient
way to prevent or delay the progression of the disease. Evidence suggests that
diet may affect Î²-amyloid production and tau processing or may regulate
inflammation, metabolism, and oxidative stress associated with Alzheimer's
disease, which can be exerted by gut microbiota. The gut microbiota is a complex 
microbial community that affects not only various digestive diseases but also
neurodegenerative diseases. Studies have shown that gut microbial metabolites,
such as pro-inflammatory factors, short-chain fatty acids, and neurotransmitters,
can affect the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Clinical studies suggested
that the gut microbial composition of patients with Alzheimer's disease is
different, in particular to lower abundances of Eubacterium rectale and
Bacteroides fragilis, which have an anti-inflammatory activity. The purpose of
this review is to summarize the neuropathological pathogenesis of Alzheimer's
disease, and the modulation of dietary patterns rather than single dietary
components on Alzheimer's disease through the gut-brain axis was discussed.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.9b08309 
PMID: 32090565 

