
1. J Anim Sci Technol. 2020 Jan;62(1):1-13. doi: 10.5187/jast.2020.62.1.1. Epub 2020
Jan 31.

Reductive acetogens isolated from ruminants and their effect on in vitro methane 
mitigation and milk performance in Holstein cows.

Kim SH(1), Mamuad LL(1), Islam M(1), Lee SS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ruminant Nutrition and Anaerobe Laboratory, Department of Animal Science and
Technology, Sunchon National University, Suncheon 57922, Korea.

This study was designed to evaluate the in vitro and in vivo effects of reductive
acetogens isolated from ruminants on methane mitigation, and milk performance,
respectively. Four acetogens, Proteiniphilum acetatigenes DA02, P. acetatigenes
GA01, Alkaliphilus crotonatoxidans GA02, and P. acetatigenes GA03 strains were
isolated from ruminants and used in in vitro experiment. A control (without
acetogen) and a positive group (with Eubacterium limosum ATCC 8486) were also
included in in vitro experiment. Based on higher acetate as well as lower methane
producing ability in in vitro trial, P. acetatigenes GA03 was used as inoculum
for in vivo experiment. Holstein dairy cows (n = 14) were divided into two groups
viz. control (without) and GA03 group (diet supplied with P. acetatigenes GA03 at
a feed rate of 1% supplementation). Milk performance and blood parameters were
checked for both groups. In in vitro, the total volatile fatty acids and acetate 
production were higher (p < 0.05) in all 4 isolated acetogens than the control
and positive treatment. Also, all acetogens significantly lowered (p < 0.05)
methane production in comparison to positive and control groups however, GA03 had
the lowest (p < 0.05) methane production among 4 isolates. In in vivo, the rate
of milk yield reduction was higher (p < 0.05) in the control than GA03 treated
group (5.07 vs 2.4 kg). Similarly, the decrease in milk fat was also higher in
control (0.14% vs 0.09%) than treatment. The somatic cell counts (SCC; ×103/mL)
was decreased from 128.43 to 107.00 in acetogen treated group however, increased 
in control from 138.14 to 395.71. In addition, GA03 increased blood glucose and
decreased non-esterified fatty acids. Our results suggest that the isolated
acetogens have the potential for in vitro methane reduction and P. acetatigenes
GA03 strain could be a candidate probiotic strain for improving milk yield and
milk fat in lactating cows with lowering SCCs.

© Copyright 2020 Korean Society of Animal Science and Technology.

DOI: 10.5187/jast.2020.62.1.1 
PMCID: PMC7008121
PMID: 32082593 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to
this article was reported.

