
1. Food Chem. 2020 Aug 1;320:126648. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.126648. Epub 2020 
Mar 18.

Dietary Luffa cylindrica (L.) Roem promotes branched-chain amino acid catabolism 
in the circulation system via gut microbiota in diet-induced obese mice.

Zhang L(1), Yue Y(1), Shi M(2), Tian M(2), Ji J(2), Liao X(1), Hu X(1), Chen
F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health, China 
Agricultural University, Beijing 100193, PR China; College of Food Science and
Nutritional Engineering, National Engineering Research Centre for Fruits and
Vegetables Processing, Key Laboratory of Fruits and Vegetables Processing,
Ministry of Agriculture, Engineering Research Centre for Fruits and Vegetables
Processing, Ministry of Education, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083,
PR China.
(2)College of Food Science and Nutritional Engineering, National Engineering
Research Centre for Fruits and Vegetables Processing, Key Laboratory of Fruits
and Vegetables Processing, Ministry of Agriculture, Engineering Research Centre
for Fruits and Vegetables Processing, Ministry of Education, China Agricultural
University, Beijing 100083, PR China.
(3)College of Food Science and Nutritional Engineering, National Engineering
Research Centre for Fruits and Vegetables Processing, Key Laboratory of Fruits
and Vegetables Processing, Ministry of Agriculture, Engineering Research Centre
for Fruits and Vegetables Processing, Ministry of Education, China Agricultural
University, Beijing 100083, PR China. Electronic address: chenfangch@sina.com.

High circulating branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) levels can be diagnosis
indicators for obesity. Luffa cylindrica (luffa) is one of vegetables against
obesity. However, whether the anti-obesity of luffa is associated with BCAA
metabolism and gut microbiota remains unknown. Here, we used conventionally
raised diet-induced obese (DIO) mice to prove dietary luffa could reduce higher
circulating BCAA levels and upregulate the tissue-specific expressions of
BCAA-catabolizing enzymes. Meanwhile, dietary luffa selectively decreased the
relative abundances of g_Enterortabdus, g_Eubacterium_xylanophilum_group and
g_Butyricicoccus that exhibited significantly positive correlations with BCAA
levels, BMI and HOMA-IR. Bacterial functionality prediction indicated dietary
luffa potentially inhibited bacterial BCAA biosynthesis for reducing BCAAs
supplementation. More importantly, dietary luffa had no impacts on BCAA
catabolism in germ-free-mimic DIO mice. Thus, dietary luffa improved BCAA
dysfunction via gut microbiota to attenuate obesity. This study offers a novel
insight into dietary intervention against obesity from the aspect of gut
microbiota-amino acid metabolism.

Copyright Â© 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.126648 
PMID: 32234657  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

