
1. Biol Trace Elem Res. 2020 Aug;196(2):537-544. doi: 10.1007/s12011-019-01942-w.
Epub 2019 Nov 18.

Fluoride-Induced Alteration in the Diversity and Composition of Bacterial
Microbiota in Mice Colon.

Fu R(1), Niu R(1), Li R(1), Yue B(1), Zhang X(1), Cao Q(1), Wang J(1), Sun Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)Shanxi Key Laboratory of Ecological Animal Science and Environmental
Veterinary Medicine, College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Shanxi
Agricultural University, Taigu, Jinzhong, 030801, Shanxi, China.
(2)Shanxi Key Laboratory of Ecological Animal Science and Environmental
Veterinary Medicine, College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Shanxi
Agricultural University, Taigu, Jinzhong, 030801, Shanxi, China.
sunzilong2000@outlook.com.

Fluoride, as an environmental toxin, causes damage to intestinal mucosa. It may
promote pathogen infection by increasing the intestinal mucosa permeability. In
this study, the colonic fecal samples from the control group (C group, 0 mg/L NaF
for 60 days) and the fluoride group (F group, 100 mg/L NaF for 60 days) were
subjected to high-throughput 16S rRNA sequencing to verify the effects of
fluoride on the colonic flora of animals. Results revealed a total of 253
operative taxonomical units (OTUs) in two groups, and 22 unique OTUs occurred in 
the F group. Fluoride increased the microbiota diversity and species richness of 
the colon. Concretely, the abundance of the Tenericutes was increased at the
level of the phyla in the F group. In addition, in the F group, significant
differences at the genus level were observed in Faecalibaculum, Alloprevotella,
[Eubacterium]_xylanophilum_group, Prevotellaceae_UCG-001, and
Ruminiclostridium_9, compared to the C group. Among them, except for the
reduction in Faecalibaculum, the other four bacteria were increased in the F
group. In summary, the intestinal microbial composition of mice was reconstituted
by the presence of fluoride, and the significantly changing bacteria may partly
account for the pathogenesis of fluoride-induced intestinal dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1007/s12011-019-01942-w 
PMID: 31741202 

