
1. CRISPR J. 2019 Dec;2(6):417-433. doi: 10.1089/crispr.2019.0026. Epub 2019 Nov 19.

Expanding the CRISPR Toolbox with ErCas12a in Zebrafish and Human Cells.

Wierson WA(#)(1), Simone BW(#)(2), WareJoncas Z(2), Mann C(1), Welker JM(1), Kar 
B(2), Emch MJ(2), Friedberg I(3), Gendron WAC(2), Barry MA(2), Clark KJ(2), Dobbs
DL(1), McGrail MA(1), Ekker SC(2), Essner JJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Development and Cell Biology, Iowa State University,
Ames, Iowa.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
Minnesota.
(3)Department of Veterinary Microbiology and Preventive Medicine, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa.
(#)Contributed equally

CRISPR and CRISPR-Cas effector proteins enable the targeting of DNA double-strand
breaks to defined loci based on a variable length RNA guide specific to each
effector. The guide RNAs are generally similar in size and form, consisting of a 
âˆ¼20 nucleotide sequence complementary to the DNA target and an RNA secondary
structure recognized by the effector. However, the effector proteins vary in
protospacer adjacent motif requirements, nuclease activities, and DNA binding
kinetics. Recently, ErCas12a, a new member of the Cas12a family, was identified
in Eubacterium rectale. Here, we report the first characterization of ErCas12a
activity in zebrafish and expand on previously reported activity in human cells. 
Using a fluorescent reporter system, we show that CRISPR-ErCas12a elicits strand 
annealing mediated DNA repair more efficiently than CRISPR-Cas9. Further, using
our previously reported gene targeting method that utilizes short homology,
GeneWeld, we demonstrate the use of CRISPR-ErCas12a to integrate reporter alleles
into the genomes of both zebrafish and human cells. Together, this work provides 
methods for deploying an additional CRISPR-Cas system, thus increasing the
flexibility researchers have in applying genome engineering technologies.

DOI: 10.1089/crispr.2019.0026 
PMCID: PMC6919245
PMID: 31742435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

