
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Mar 11;11:402. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00402. eCollection
2020.

Adaptive Laboratory Evolution of Eubacterium limosum ATCC 8486 on Carbon
Monoxide.

Kang S(1)(2), Song Y(1)(2), Jin S(1)(2), Shin J(1)(2), Bae J(1)(2), Kim DR(3),
Lee JK(4), Kim SC(1)(2)(5), Cho S(1)(2), Cho BK(1)(2)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology, Daejeon, South Korea.
(2)KAIST Institute for the BioCentury, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology, Daejeon, South Korea.
(3)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Hanyang University, Seoul, South Korea.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering, Konkuk University, Seoul, South Korea.
(5)Intelligent Synthetic Biology Center, Daejeon, South Korea.

Acetogens are naturally capable of metabolizing carbon monoxide (CO), a component
of synthesis gas (syngas), for autotrophic growth in order to produce biomass and
metabolites such as acetyl-CoA via the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway. However, the
autotrophic growth of acetogens is often inhibited by the presence of high CO
concentrations because of CO toxicity, thus limiting their biosynthetic potential
for industrial applications. Herein, we implemented adaptive laboratory evolution
(ALE) for growth improvement of Eubacterium limosum ATCC 8486 under high CO
conditions. The strain evolved under syngas conditions with 44% CO over 150
generations, resulting in a significant increased optical density (600 nm) and
growth rate by 2.14 and 1.44 folds, respectively. In addition, the evolved
populations were capable of proliferating under CO concentrations as high as 80%.
These results suggest that cell growth is enhanced as beneficial mutations are
selected and accumulated, and the metabolism is altered to facilitate the
enhanced phenotype. To identify the causal mutations related to growth
improvement under high CO concentrations, we performed whole genome resequencing 
of each population at 50-generation intervals. Interestingly, we found key
mutations in CO dehydrogenase/acetyl-CoA synthase (CODH/ACS) complex coding
genes, acsA and cooC. To characterize the mutational effects on growth under CO, 
we isolated single clones and confirmed that the growth rate and CO tolerance
level of the single clone were comparable to those of the evolved populations and
wild type strain under CO conditions. Furthermore, the evolved strain produced
1.34 folds target metabolite acetoin when compared to the parental strain while
introducing the biosynthetic pathway coding genes to the strains. Consequently,
this study demonstrates that the mutations in the CODH/ACS complex affect
autotrophic growth enhancement in the presence of CO as well as the CO tolerance 
of E. limosum ATCC 8486.

Copyright Â© 2020 Kang, Song, Jin, Shin, Bae, Kim, Lee, Kim, Cho and Cho.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00402 
PMCID: PMC7079680
PMID: 32218779 

