
1. J Anim Physiol Anim Nutr (Berl). 2020 Jul;104(4):1144-1154. doi:
10.1111/jpn.13287. Epub 2020 Jan 26.

Effects of purified fibre-mixture supplementation of gestation diet on gut
microbiota, immunity and reproductive performance of sows.

Wu J(1), Xiong Y(2), Zhong M(3), Li Y(3), Wan H(3), Wu(4), Liu Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Guangxi University, Nanning, China.
(2)Guangxi Animal Disease Prevention and Control Center, Nanning, China.
(3)Guangxi ShangDa Tech co.,LTD, Nanning, China.
(4)Key Laboratory for Animal Disease-Resistance Nutrition of the Ministry of
Agriculture of China, Institute of Animal Nutrition, Sichuan Agricultural
University, Chengdu, China.

This experiment was conducted to investigate the effects of a purified
fibre-mixture (FM, 50% guar gum, 50% cellulose) supplementation of gestation diet
on the immunity, faecal microbial composition and reproductive performance of
sows. A day after breeding, 68 multiparous sows were randomly allocated to
receive treatment with a control (CON) diet or a diet containing 3% FM (FM diet).
Results showed the FM diet to be associated with a significant increase in the
number of live-born piglets relative to CON (13.65 vs. 12.47, p < .05). In
addition, this FM diet coincided with significantly increased faecal
concentrations of butyrate on day 30 and propionate on day 100 (p < .05), with
trends towards increased propionate on day 30 and increased short-chain fatty
acids (SCFAs) on days 30 and 110 (p < .1). Meanwhile, FM addition markedly
increased the abundance of representative SCFAs producing-related genera as
Roseburia on days 30 and 110 (p < .05), Eubacterium-hallii-group on days 30 and
110 (p < .05), and Bacteroides on day 110 of gestation (p < .05). The serotonin
concentration on day 110 of gestation had increased (p < .05) and that on day 30 
of gestation (p < .1) exhibited a tendency to increase with the FM-supplemented
diet in comparison with the CON. Besides, FM supplementation caused an increase
in serum interleukin-10 concentrations on days 30 (p < .05) and 110 of gestation 
(p < .1), and a decrease in interferon-γ concentration on day 30 of gestation
(p < .05). Together these results indicated that purified FM was able to improve 
sow reproductive performance through a mechanism potentially linked with a bias
towards type-2 helper T-cell differentiation that supported embryonic survival
and thereby improve reproductive yields. Changes in metabolites produced by the
intestinal microbiome may thus have an impact on host immunity and reproductive
performance.

© 2020 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/jpn.13287 
PMID: 31984567 

