
1. J Ethnopharmacol. 2020 Oct 28;261:113073. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113073. Epub
2020 Jul 14.

Lythrum salicaria L. herb and gut microbiota of healthy post-weaning piglets.
Focus on prebiotic properties and formation of postbiotic metabolites in ex vivo 
cultures.

Dadi TH(1), Vahjen W(1), Zentek J(1), Melzig MF(2), Granica S(3), Piwowarski
JP(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Animal Nutrition, Freie Universitaet Berlin, Germany.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Biology, Freie Universitaet Berlin, Germany.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy and Molecular Basis of Phytotherapy, Medical
University of Warsaw, Poland.
(4)Institute of Animal Nutrition, Freie Universitaet Berlin, Germany; Department 
of Pharmaceutical Biology, Freie Universitaet Berlin, Germany; Department of
Pharmacognosy and Molecular Basis of Phytotherapy, Medical University of Warsaw, 
Poland. Electronic address: jpiwowarski@wum.edu.pl.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Herb of purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria L. 
from Lythraceae family) (LSH) was used in Europe since ancient times till
early-20th century in the therapy of diarrhea and dysentery in human and
veterinary medicine. Post-weaning diarrhea is a main problem affecting global
piglet production, which leads to significant economic losses because of
increased morbidity and mortality, reduced average daily gain, and high
antibiotic consumption. Post-weaning diarrhea has various causes, all of which
have been linked to imbalances of intestinal microbiota. The aim of the present
study was to determine the interaction of LSH with the gut microbiota of healthy 
post-weaning piglets in order to evaluate its influence on microbiota composition
and metabolism as well as production of potentially bioactive postbiotic
metabolites from the extract constituents.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ex vivo anaerobic cultures of piglets intestinal
microbiota obtained from jejunum, ileum, caecum and distal colon were conducted
in various culture media supplemented with LSH. The production of postbiotic
metabolites was determined using UPLC-DAD-MSn method. Bacterial genomic DNA was
extracted and examined by sequencing by amplification of the 16S rDNA V3-V4
hypervariable regions followed by bioinformatic analysis. The production of SCFA 
in cultures was determined by GC analysis.
RESULTS: Only the caecal and distal colon microbiota was able to hydrolyze and
metabolize ellagitannins present in LSH to urolithins. Urolithin M6, M7,
urolithin C, A and iso-urolithin A were detected together with a previously not
described metabolite originating from the flavogalloyl moiety of C-glucosylic
ellagitannins. LSH had no significant influence on microbiota diversity and
metabolic activity, but was able to modulate its composition by significant
decrease in Collinsella, Senegalimassilia, uncultured bacteria belonging to
Porphyromonadaceae, Rikenellaceae RC9 gut group, Mogibacterium, Dorea,
Lachnoclostridium, Lachnospiraceae UCG-004 group, Moryella, [Eubacterium]
coprostanoligenes, Intestinimonas, Ruminococcaceae UCG-005, uncultured bacteria
belonging to Ruminococcaceae, Acidaminococcus and Allisonella, while the relative
abundance of Prevotella, Agathobacter, [Eubacterium] hallii group,
Lachnospiraceae NK3A20 group, [Ruminococcus] torques group, Catenibacterium,
Catenisphaera and Megasphaera increased. Significant correlations between taxa
abundance and production of urolithins were determined.
CONCLUSIONS: In the present study we have shown, that Lythrum salicaria herb
fulfills the criteria of a potential candidate for antidiarrheal agent, which
could be applied as therapy or prevention of post-weaning diarrhea in piglets. It
not only modulates the gut microbiota composition without causing the dysbiosis
and impairing metabolic activity, but is also a source of postbiotic metabolites,
namely urolithins, which anti-inflammatory properties can be beneficial for gut
health of piglets during the weaning period.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113073 
PMID: 32673710 

