
1. FEBS J. 2019 Dec 26. doi: 10.1111/febs.15193. [Epub ahead of print]

A Na+ A1 AO ATP synthase with a V-type c subunit in a mesophilic bacterium.

Litty D(1), Müller V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Microbiology & Bioenergetics, Institute of Molecular Biosciences,
Johann Wolfgang Goethe University, Frankfurt/Main, Germany.

A1 AO ATP synthases with a V-type c subunit have only been found in
hyperthermophilic archaea which makes bioenergetic analyses impossible due to the
instability of liposomes at high temperatures. A search for a potential archaeal 
A1 AO ATP synthase with a V-type c subunit in a mesophilic organism revealed an
A1 AO ATP synthase cluster in the anaerobic, acetogenic bacterium
Eubacterium limosum KIST612. The enzyme was purified to apparent homogeneity from
cells grown on methanol to a specific activity of 1.2 U·mg-1 with a yield of 12%.
The enzyme contained subunits A, B, C, D, E, F, H, a, and c. Subunit c is
predicted to be a typical V-type c subunit with only one ion (Na+ )-binding site.
Indeed, ATP hydrolysis was strictly Na+ -dependent. N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide
(DCCD) inhibited ATP hydrolysis, but inhibition was relieved by addition of Na+ .
Na+ was shown directly to abolish binding of the fluorescence DCCD derivative,
NCD-4, to subunit c, demonstrating a competition of Na+ and DCCD/NCD-4 for a
common binding site. After incorporation of the A1 AO ATP synthase into
liposomes, ATP-dependent primary transport of 22 Na+ as well as ΔµNa+ -driven ATP
synthesis could be demonstrated. The Na+ A1 AO ATP synthase from E. limosum is
the first ATP synthase with a V-type c subunit from a mesophilic organism. This
will enable future bioenergetic analysis of these unique ATP synthases.

© 2019 The Authors. The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf
of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.

DOI: 10.1111/febs.15193 
PMID: 31876375 

