
1. Benef Microbes. 2019 Dec 9;10(8):841-854. doi: 10.3920/BM2019.0057. Epub 2019 Dec
4.

Association of life habits and fermented milk intake with stool frequency,
defecatory symptoms and intestinal microbiota in healthy Japanese adults.

Shima T(1), Amamoto R(1), Kaga C(1), Kado Y(1), Sasai T(1), Watanabe O(2),
Shiinoki J(2), Iwazaki K(3), Shigemura H(3), Tsuji H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yakult Central Institute, 5-11 Izumi, Kunitachi-shi, Tokyo 186-8650, Japan.
(2)Yakult Honsha Co., Ltd., Development Department, 1-1-19 Higashishinbashi,
Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8660, Japan.
(3)Yakult Honsha Co., Ltd., Corporate Planning Office, 1-1-19 Higashishinbashi,
Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8660, Japan.

Few studies have examined the effects of smoking habit, the frequency of alcohol 
drinking, exercise, and fermented milk consumption on defecatory symptoms and gut
microbiota composition, and particularly their interactive effects. We examined
the effect of these lifestyle factors on bowel movements and gut microbiota
composition in 366 healthy Japanese adults by analysis of covariance. Smoking did
not affect defecatory symptoms but was negatively correlated with total bacteria 
and Enterococcus counts. Drinking frequency was significantly positively
correlated with a feeling of incomplete evacuation and counts of the Bacteroides 
fragilis group and Acidaminococcus groups. Exercise frequency tended to be
negatively correlated with the Bristol Stool Form Scale score and was
significantly negatively correlated with the counts of Enterobacteriaceae and
positively correlated with the Prevotella counts in the faeces. The frequency of 
fermented milk consumption was not significant but tended to be positively
correlated with stool frequency. The frequency of fermented milk consumption was 
significantly positively correlated with the counts of the Atopobium cluster,
Eubacterium cylindroides group, Acidaminococcus group, Clostridium ramosum
subgroup, and Lactobacillus in the faeces. The frequency of consumption of
probiotic Lactobacillus casei-containing fermented milk was significantly
positively correlated with stool frequency. The counts of probiotic Lactobacillus
casei in the stool was positively correlated with the counts of Bifidobacterium
and total Lactobacillus. These results suggest that smoking, alcohol drinking,
exercise, and consumption of fermented milk, particularly containing probiotic L.
casei, differently affect bowel movements and gut microbiota composition in
healthy Japanese adults.

DOI: 10.3920/BM2019.0057 
PMID: 31965840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

