
1. J Med Microbiol. 2020 Apr;69(4):558-571. doi: 10.1099/jmm.0.001178.

The bacterial neurometabolic signature of the gut microbiota of young children
with autism spectrum disorders.

Averina OV(1)(2), Kovtun AS(3)(2), Polyakova SI(1), Savilova AM(1), Rebrikov
DV(1), Danilenko VN(3)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Pirogov Russian National Research Medical University, Moscow 117997, Russia.
(2)Vavilov Institute of General Genetics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow
119991, Russia.
(3)Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (State University), Dolgoprudny,
Moscow oblast 141701, Russia.

Introduction. The human gut microbiota is currently seen as an important factor
that can promote autism spectrum disorder (ASD) development in children.Aim. This
study aimed to detect differences in the taxonomic composition and content of
bacterial genes encoding key enzymes involved in the metabolism of neuroactive
biomarker compounds in the metagenomes of gut microbiota of children with ASD and
neurotypical children.Methodology. A whole metagenome sequencing approach was
used to obtain metagenomic data on faecal specimens of 36 children with ASD and
21 healthy neurotypical children of 3-5â€‰years old. Taxonomic analysis was
conducted using MetaPhlAn2. The developed bioinformatics algorithm and created
catalogue of the orthologues were applied to identify bacterial genes of
neuroactive compounds in the metagenomes. For the identification of metagenomic
signatures of children with ASD, Wilcoxon's test and adjustment for multiple
comparisons were used.Results. Statistically significant differences with
decreases in average abundance in the microbiota of ASD children were found for
the genera Barnesiella and Parabacteroides and species Alistipes putredinis, B.
caccae, Bacteroides intestinihominis, Eubacterium rectale, Parabacteroides
distasonis and Ruminococcus lactaris. Average relative abundances of the detected
genes and neurometabolic signature approach did not reveal many significant
differences in the metagenomes of the groups that were compared. We noted
decreases in the abundance of genes linked to production of GABA, melatonine and 
butyric acid in the ASD metagenomes.Conclusion. For the first time, the
neurometabolic signature of the gut microbiota of young children with ASD is
presented. The data can help to provide a comparative assessment of the
transcriptional and metabolomic activity of the identified genes.

DOI: 10.1099/jmm.0.001178 
PMID: 32213246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

