
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Sep;70(9):5177-5181. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004390.
Epub 2020 Aug 19.

Opinions 100, 101 and 102.

Arahal DR(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiología y Ecología and Colección Española de Cultivos
Tipo (CECT), Universitat de València, Valencia, Spain.
(2)Judicial Commission of the International Committee on Systematics of
Prokaryotes, Chair.

The International Committee on Systematics of Prokaryotes has formally made final
decisions, taking into account the conclusions of the Judicial Commission, on
three pending Requests for an Opinion, thereby allowing the corresponding
Opinions to be issued. According to Opinion 100, the request for the recognition 
of strain A1-86 (=DSM 17629=NCIMB 14373) as the neotype strain of Eubacterium
rectale (Hauduroy et al. 1937) Prévot 1938 (Approved Lists 1980) is denied,
ruling that a neotype does not need to be designated for E. rectale because
strain VPI 0990 (=ATCC 33656=CIP 105953) is considered to be a duplicate isolate 
of the same strain as VPI 0989 (=ATCC 25578) and may serve as its nomenclatural
type. Opinion 101 approves the request that strain ATCC 25946 (=DSM 14877) serves
as the type strain of Melittangium lichenicola instead of strain ATCC 25944,
formally correcting the Approved Lists of Bacterial Names. Opinion 102 concludes 
that strain Cc m8 (=DSM 14697=CIP 109128=JCM 12621) is an established neotype
strain for the species Myxococcus macrosporus, replacing the designated type
strain Windsor M271, and that strain Mx s8 (=DSM 14675=JCM 12634) is an
established neotype strain for the species Myxococcus stipitatus, replacing the
designated type strain Windsor M78, with some additional considerations about the
nature of the type material replaced and about the name Corallococcus
(Myxococcus) macrosporus.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004390 
PMID: 32812861 

