
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Feb 27;10:58. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00058.
eCollection 2020.

Alterations in Gut Microbiota of Gestational Diabetes Patients During the First
Trimester of Pregnancy.

Ma S(1), You Y(2), Huang L(1), Long S(1), Zhang J(1), Guo C(1), Zhang N(1), Wu
X(1), Xiao Y(1), Tan H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, Xiangya School of Public
Health, Central South University, Changsha, China.
(2)Department of Obstetrics, Hunan Provincial Maternal and Child Health Hospital,
Changsha, China.

Background: Dysbiosis of human gut microbiota is associated with a wide range of 
metabolic disorders, including gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). Yet whether
gut microbiota dysbiosis participates in the etiology of GDM remains largely
unknown. Objectives: Our study was initiated to determine whether the
alternations in gut microbial composition during early pregnancy linked to the
later development of GDM, and explore the feasibility of microbial biomarkers for
the early prediction of GDM. Study design: This nested case-control study was
based upon an early pregnancy follow-up cohort (ChiCTR1900020652). Gut microbiota
profiles of 98 subjects with GDM and 98 matched healthy controls during the early
pregnancy (10-15 weeks) were assessed via 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing of V4
region. The data set was randomly split into a discovery set and a validation
set, the former was used to analyze the differences between GDM cases and
controls in gut microbial composition and functional annotation, and to establish
an early identification model of GDM, then the performance of the model was
verified by the external validation set. Results: Bioinformatic analyses revealed
changes to gut microbial composition with significant differences in relative
abundance between the groups. Specifically, Eisenbergiella, Tyzzerella 4, and
Lachnospiraceae NK4A136 were enriched in the GDM group, whereas Parabacteroides, 
Megasphaera, Eubacterium eligens group, etc. remained dominant in the controls.
Correlation analysis revealed that GDM-enriched genera Eisenbergiella and
Tyzzerella 4 were positively correlated with fasting blood glucose levels, while 
three control-enriched genera (Parabacteroides, Parasutterella, and
Ruminococcaceae UCG 002) were the opposite. Further, GDM functional annotation
modules revealed enrichment of modules for sphingolipid metabolism, starch and
sucrose metabolism, etc., while lysine biosynthesis and nitrogen metabolism were 
reduced. Finally, five genera and two clinical indices were included in the
linear discriminant analysis model for the prediction of GDM; the areas under
receiver operating characteristic curves of the training and validation sets were
0.736 (95% confidence interval: 0.663-0.808) and 0.696 (0.575-0.818),
respectively. Conclusions: Gut bacterial dysbiosis in early pregnancy was found
to be associated with the later development of GDM, and gut microbiota-targeted
biomarkers might be utilized as potential predictors of GDM.

Copyright Â© 2020 Ma, You, Huang, Long, Zhang, Guo, Zhang, Wu, Xiao and Tan.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00058 
PMCID: PMC7056672
PMID: 32175285 

