
1. FASEB J. 2020 Sep 17. doi: 10.1096/fj.202000622R. [Epub ahead of print]

Metagenomic analysis of the gut microbiome in atherosclerosis patients identify
cross-cohort microbial signatures and potential therapeutic target.

Liu S(1)(2), Zhao W(1), Liu X(2), Cheng L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Colorectal and Pelvic Floor Diseases,
The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, Sun Yat-Sen University,
Guangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Shenzhen People's Hospital, The Second
Clinical Medicine College of Jinan University, Shenzhen, China.

The gut microbiota is associated with cardiovascular diseases, including
atherosclerosis. However, the composition, functional capacity, and metabolites
of the gut microbiome about atherosclerosis have not been comprehensively
studied. Here, we reanalyzed 25 metagenomic stool samples from Sweden and 385
metagenomic stool samples from China using HUMAnN2, PanPhlAn, and MelonnPan to
obtain more sufficient information. We found that the samples from
atherosclerotic patients in both cohorts were depleted in Bacteroides
xylanisolvens, Odoribacter splanchnicus, Eubacterium eligens, Roseburia
inulinivorans, and Roseburia intestinalis. At the functional level, healthy
metagenomes were both enriched in pathways of starch degradation V, glycolysis
III (from glucose), CDP-diacylglycerol biosynthesis, and folate transformations. 
R inulinivorans and R intestinalis are major contributors to starch degradation
V, while E eligens greatly contribute to the pathway CDP-diacylglycerol
biosynthesis, and B xylanisolvens and B uniformis contribute to folate
transformations II. The 11 marker species selected from the Chinese cohort
distinguish patients from controls with an area under the receiver operating
characteristics curve (AUC) of 0.86. Strain-level microbial analysis revealed a
geographically associated adaptation of the strains from E eligens, B uniformis, 
and E coli. Two gut microbial metabolites, nicotinic acid and hydrocinnamic acid,
had significantly higher predicted abundance in the control samples compared to
the patients in the Chinese cohort, and interestinglynicotinic acid is already an
effective lipid-lowering drug to reducing cardiovascular risk. Our results
indicate intestinal bacteria such as B xylanisolvens, E eligens, and R
inulinivorans could be promising probiotics and potential therapeutic target for 
atherosclerosis.

Â© 2020 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.202000622R 
PMID: 32939880 

