
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Sep 10. pii: S0022-0302(20)30695-0. doi:
10.3168/jds.2020-18576. [Epub ahead of print]

Antimicrobial activity as a potential factor influencing the predominance of
Bacillus subtilis within the constitutive microflora of a whey reverse osmosis
membrane biofilm.

Verma P(1), Anand S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Midwest Dairy Foods Research Center, Dairy and Food Science Department, South 
Dakota State University, Brookings 57007.
(2)Midwest Dairy Foods Research Center, Dairy and Food Science Department, South 
Dakota State University, Brookings 57007. Electronic address:
sanjeev.anand@sdstate.edu.

Current cleaning and sanitation protocols may not be adequately effective in
cleaning separation membranes and can result in the formation of resilient
multispecies biofilms. The matured biofilms may result in a bacterial
predominance with resilient strains on membranes with a prolonged use. In our
previous study, we isolated organisms such as Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus
licheniformis, Exiguobacterium aurantiacum, and Acinetobacter radioresistens from
an 18-mo-old reverse osmosis membrane. The competitive exclusion studies revealed
the predominance of B. subtilis within the membrane biofilm microflora. This
study investigated the antimicrobial activity of the B. subtilis isolate as a
potential cause of its predominance. The culture isolate was propagated in
tryptic soy broth at 37°C, and microfiltered to prepare cell-free extracts (CFE) 
at 8-, 10-, 12-, 14-, 16-, and 18-h intervals. The CFE were freeze-dried and
suspended in minimum quantities of HPLC-grade water to prepare concentrated
solutions. The antimicrobial activities of CFE were tested using the agar-well
assay against the biofilm constitutive microflora. The experiments were conducted
in triplicates and means were compared for significant differences using a
general linear mixed model procedure. The results indicated the highest
antimicrobial activity of 12-h CFE of B. subtilis against other constitutive
microflora such as Exiguobacterium sp., E. auranticum, and A. radioresistens,
with average inhibition zone sizes of 16.5 ± 0.00, 16.25 ± 0.66, and 20.6 ± 0.00 
mm, respectively. Upon treatment with proteinase K, the CFE completely lost its
antimicrobial activity, establishing it to be a proteinaceous compound. The AA
profiling revealed the total crude protein in CFE to be 51% (wt/wt), with its
major constituent as glutamic acid (11.30% wt/wt). The freeze-dried CFE was
thermally stable on exposure to the common temperature used for sanitizer
applications (23.8°C for 5 and 10 min) and over a pH range of 3.0 to 6.3. The
study helped us understand the role of the antimicrobial compound produced by B. 
subtilis as a potential cause of its predominance within the biofilm constitutive
microflora.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-18576 
PMID: 32921470 

