
1. Int J Parasitol. 2020 Aug;50(9):719-729. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpara.2020.06.002. Epub 
2020 Jul 11.

Extracellular vesicles from Heligmosomoides bakeri and Trichuris muris contain
distinct microRNA families and small RNAs that could underpin different functions
in the host.

White R(1), Kumar S(1), Chow FW(1), Robertson E(1), Hayes KS(2), Grencis RK(2),
Duque-Correa MA(3), Buck AH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Immunology & Infection Research, School of Biological Sciences,
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9 3FL, UK.
(2)Lydia Becker Institute of Immunology and Inflammation, Wellcome Trust Centre
for Cell Matrix Research and Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, University 
of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(3)Wellcome Sanger Institute, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton CB10 1SA, UK.
(4)Institute of Immunology & Infection Research, School of Biological Sciences,
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9 3FL, UK. Electronic address:
a.buck@ed.ac.uk.

Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have emerged as a ubiquitous component of helminth
excretory-secretory products that can deliver parasite molecules to host cells to
elicit immunomodulatory effects. RNAs are one type of cargo molecule that can
underpin EV functions, hence there is extensive interest in characterising the
RNAs that are present in EVs from different helminth species. Here we outline
methods for identifying all of the small RNAs (sRNA) in helminth EVs and address 
how different methodologies may influence the sRNAs detected. We show that
different EV purification methods introduce relatively little variation in the
sRNAs that are detected, and that different RNA library preparation methods
yielded larger differences. We compared the EV sRNAs in the gastrointestinal
nematode Heligmosomoides bakeri with those in EVs from the distantly related
gastrointestinal nematode Trichuris muris, and found that many of the sRNAs in
both organisms derive from repetitive elements or intergenic regions. However,
only in H. bakeri do these RNAs contain a 5' triphosphate, and Guanine (G)
starting nucleotide, consistent with their biogenesis by RNA-dependent RNA
polymerases (RdRPs). Distinct microRNA (miRNA) families are carried in EVs from
each parasite, with H. bakeri EVs specific for miR-71, miR-49, miR-63, miR-259
and miR-240 gene families, and T. muris EVs specific for miR-1, miR-1822 and
miR-252, and enriched for miR-59, miR-72 and miR-44 families, with the miR-9,
miR-10, miR-80 and let-7 families abundant in both. We found a larger proportion 
of miRNA reads derive from the mouse host in T. muris EVs, compared with H.
bakeri EVs. Our report underscores potential biases in the sRNAs sequenced based 
on library preparation methods, suggests specific nematode lineages have evolved 
distinct sRNA synthesis/export pathways, and highlights specific differences in
EV miRNAs from H. bakeri and T. muris that may underpin functional adaptation to 
their host niches.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpara.2020.06.002 
PMCID: PMC7435682
PMID: 32659276 

