
1. Acad Med. 2020 Jul 28. doi: 10.1097/ACM.0000000000003618. [Epub ahead of print]

Identifying Entrustable Professional Activities for Shared Decision Making in
Postgraduate Medical Education: A National Delphi Study.

Baghus A(1), Giroldi E, Muris J, Stiggelbout A, van de Pol M, Timmerman A, van
der Weijden T.

Author information: 
(1)A. Baghus is a PhD student and resident, Department of Family Medicine, Care
and Public Health Research Institute, Maastricht University, Maastricht, the
Netherlands; ORCID: http://orcid.org/0000-0002-6481-9256. E. Giroldi is assistant
professor, Department of Family Medicine, Care and Public Health Research
Institute and Department of Educational Development and Research, School of
Health Professions Education, Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands;
ORCID: http://orcid.org/0000-0003-3254-4849. J. Muris is professor, Department of
Family Medicine, Care and Public Health Research Institute, Maastricht
University, Maastricht, the Netherlands; ORCID:
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-8780-476X. A. Stiggelbout is professor, Department of 
Biomedical Data Sciences, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the
Netherlands; ORCID: http://orcid.org/0000-0002-6293-4509. M. van de Pol is
associate professor, Department of Primary and Community Care, Radboud University
Medical Center, Nijmegen, the Netherlands; ORCID:
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-0977-7954. A. Timmerman is assistant professor,
Department of Family Medicine, Care and Public Health Research Institute,
Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands; ORCID:
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-8114-8802. T. van der Weijden is professor, Department
of Family Medicine, Care and Public Health Research Institute, Maastricht
University, Maastricht, the Netherlands; ORCID:
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-7469-3781.

PURPOSE: Although shared decision making (SDM) is considered the preferred
approach in medical decision making, it is currently not routinely used in
clinical practice. To bridge the transfer gap between SDM training and
application, the authors aimed to reach consensus on entrustable professional
activities (EPAs) for SDM and associated behavioral indicators as a framework to 
support self-directed learning during postgraduate medical education.
METHOD: Using existing literature on SDM frameworks and competencies; input from 
an interview study with 17 Dutch experts in SDM, doctor-patient communication,
and medical education; and a national SDM expert meeting as a starting point, in 
2017, the authors conducted a modified online Delphi study with a
multidisciplinary Dutch panel of 32 experts in SDM and medical education.
RESULTS: After 3 Delphi rounds, consensus was reached on 4 EPAs-(1) the resident 
discusses the desirability of shared decision making with the patient, (2) the
resident discusses the options for management with the patient, (3) the resident 
explores the patient's preferences and deliberations, and (4) the resident takes 
a well-argued decision together with the patient. Consensus was also reached on
18 associated behavioral indicators. Of the 32 experts, 30 (94%) agreed on this
list of SDM EPAs and behavioral indicators.
CONCLUSIONS: The authors succeeded in developing EPAs and associated behavioral
indicators for SDM for postgraduate medical education to improve the quality of
SDM training and the application of SDM in clinical practice. These EPAs are
characterized as process EPAs for SDM in contrast with content EPAs related to
diverse medical complaints. A next step is the implementation of the SDM EPAs in 
existing competency-based workplace curricula.

DOI: 10.1097/ACM.0000000000003618 
PMID: 32739926 

