
1. Front Immunol. 2020 Jun 23;11:1286. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.01286. eCollection
2020.

Immunity to Soil-Transmitted Helminths: Evidence From the Field and Laboratory
Models.

Colombo SAP(1), Grencis RK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Tropical Disease Biology, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine,
Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(2)Division of Infection, Immunity and Respiratory Medicine, Wellcome Trust
Centre for Cell Matrix Research, Lydia Becker Institute for Immunology and
Inflammation, The University of Manchester, Manchester, United Kingdom.

Infection with soil-transmitted helminths (STH) remains a major burden on global 
health and agriculture. Our understanding of the immunological mechanisms that
govern whether an individual is resistant or susceptible to infection is derived 
primarily from model infections in rodents. Typically, experimental infections
employ an artificially high, single bolus of parasites that leads to rapid
expulsion of the primary infection and robust immunity to subsequent challenges. 
However, immunity in natura is generated slowly, and is only partially effective,
with individuals in endemic areas retaining low-level infections throughout their
lives. Therefore, there is a gap between traditional model STH systems and
observations in the field. Here, we review the immune response to traditional
model STH infections in the laboratory. We compare these data to studies of
natural infection in humans and rodents in endemic areas, highlighting crucial
differences between experimental and natural infection. We then detail the
literature to date on the use of "trickle" infections to experimentally model the
kinetics of natural infection.

Copyright Â© 2020 Colombo and Grencis.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.01286 
PMCID: PMC7324686
PMID: 32655568 

