
1. Water Res. 2020 Aug 27;186:116352. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2020.116352. [Epub ahead
of print]

Household slow sand filter to treat groundwater with microbiological risks in
rural communities.

Andreoli FC(1), Sabogal-Paz LP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hydraulics and Sanitation, São Carlos School of Engineering,
University of São Paulo, 400 Trabalhador São-carlense Avenue, Zip code:
13566-590, São Carlos, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Department of Hydraulics and Sanitation, São Carlos School of Engineering,
University of São Paulo, 400 Trabalhador São-carlense Avenue, Zip code:
13566-590, São Carlos, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: lysaboga@sc.usp.br.

Household slow sand filters (HSSFs) improve the quality of life in rural
communities as they provide safe water. However, HSSFs require time for the
growth of the biological layer (schmutzdecke) to achieve maximum performance,
especially when groundwater is used as it normally has few nutrients. In this
ripening period, pathogenic microorganisms can pass through the filter. In this
context, this study reports the performance of two HSSF settings, intermittent
(I-HSSF) and continuous (C-HSSF) flows followed by disinfection with sodium
hypochlorite to treat groundwater with Escherichia coli, Giardia muris cysts and 
Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts. The weekly introduction of river water was tested
as a filter-ripening agent and this procedure reduced the ripening time in
approximately 80 days. Filtered water disinfection improved the water quality and
inactivated protozoa. The costs and operational challenges addressed in this
study can provide support to HSSF technology transfer in rural communities
worldwide.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2020.116352 
PMID: 32916617 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

