
1. Pathogens. 2020 Sep 24;9(10). pii: E781. doi: 10.3390/pathogens9100781.

Detection of Babesia odocoilei in Ixodes scapularis Ticks Collected from
Songbirds in Ontario and Quebec, Canada.

Scott JD(1), Pascoe EL(1), Sajid MS(1), Foley JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Epidemiology, School of Veterinary Medicine,
University of California Davis, Davis, CA 95616, USA.

Songbirds widely disperse ticks that carry a diversity of pathogens, some of
which are pathogenic to humans. Among ticks commonly removed from songbirds, the 
blacklegged tick, Ixodes scapularis, can harbor any combination of nine zoonotic 
pathogens, including Babesia species. From May through September 2019, a total
157 ticks were collected from 93 songbirds of 29 species in the Canadian
provinces of Ontario and Québec. PCR testing for the 18S gene of Babesia species 
detected Babesia odocoilei in 12.63% of I. scapularis nymphs parasitizing
songbirds in Ontario and Québec; none of the relatively small numbers of Ixodes
muris, Ixodes brunneus, or Haemaphysalis leporispalustris were PCR-positive. For 
ticks at each site, the prevalence of B. odocoilei was 16.67% in Ontario and
8.89% and 5.26% in Québec. Of 31 live, engorged I. scapularis larvae and nymphs
held to molt, 25 ticks completed the molt; five of these molted ticks were
positive for B. odocoilei. PCR-positive ticks were collected from six bird
species-namely, Common Yellowthroat, Swainson's Thrush, Veery, House Wren,
Baltimore Oriole, and American Robin. Phylogenetic analysis documented the close 
relationship of B. odocoilei to Babesia canis canis and Babesia divergens, the
latter a known pathogen to humans. For the first time in Canada, we confirm the
transstadial passage of B. odocoilei in I. scapularis molting from larvae to
nymphs. A novel host record reveals I. scapularis on a Palm Warbler. Our findings
show that B. odocoilei is present in all mobile life stages of I. scapularis, and
it is widely dispersed by songbirds in Ontario and Québec.

DOI: 10.3390/pathogens9100781 
PMID: 32987727 

