
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Aug;70(8):4774-4781. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004344.

Fundicoccus ignavus gen. nov., sp. nov., a novel genus of the family
Aerococcaceae isolated from bulk tank milk.

Siebert A(1), Huptas C(1), Wenning M(2)(1), Scherer S(1), Doll EV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Chair of Microbial Ecology, ZIEL - Institute for Food & Health, Technische
Universität München, Weihenstephaner Berg 3, 85354 Freising, Germany.
(2)Bavarian Health and Food Safety Authority, Veterinärstraße 2, 85764
Oberschleißheim, Germany.

Three strains of a Gram-stain-positive, catalase-negative, facultative anaerobic,
and coccoid species were isolated from German bulk tank milk. Phylogenetic
analyses based on the 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that the three strains
(WS4937T, WS4759 and WS5303) constitute an independent phylogenetic lineage
within the family Aerococcaceae with Facklamia hominis CCUG 36813T (93.7-94.1 %) 
and Eremococcus coleocola M1831/95/2T (93.5 %) as most closely related type
species. The unclassified strains demonstrated variable growth with 6.5 % (w/v)
NaCl and tolerated pH 6.5-9.5. Growth was observed from 12 to 39 °C. Their
cell-wall peptidoglycan belongs to the A1α type (l-Lys-direct) consisting of
alanine, glutamic acid and lysine. The predominant fatty acids were C16 : 1 ω9c, 
C16 : 0 and C18 : 1 ω9c and in the polar lipids profile three glycolipids, a
phospholipid, phosphatidylglycerol, phosphoglycolipid and diphosphatidylglycerol 
were found. The G+C content of strain WS4937T was 37.4 mol% with a genome size of
~3.0 Mb. Based on phylogenetic, phylogenomic and biochemical characterizations,
the isolates can be demarcated from all other genera of the family Aerococcaceae 
and, therefore, the novel genus Fundicoccus gen. nov. is proposed. The type
species of the novel genus is Fundicoccus ignavus gen. nov., sp. nov. WS4937T
(=DSM 109652T=LMG 31441T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004344 
PMID: 32744986  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

