
1. Intern Med. 2020;59(17):2089-2094. doi: 10.2169/internalmedicine.4628-20. Epub
2020 Sep 1.

Exploratory Research on the Relationship between Human Gut Microbiota and Portal 
Hypertension.

Yokoyama K(1), Tsuchiya N(1), Yamauchi R(1), Miyayama T(1), Uchida Y(1), Shibata 
K(1), Fukuda H(1), Umeda K(1), Takata K(1), Tanaka T(1), Inomata S(1), Morihara
D(1), Takeyama Y(1), Shakado S(1), Sakisaka S(1), Hirai F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Medicine, Fukuoka University Faculty of
Medicine, Japan.

Objective The relationship between gut microbiota and portal hypertension remains
unclear. We investigated the characteristics of the gut microbiota in portal
hypertension patients with esophago-gastric varices and liver cirrhosis. Methods 
Thirty-six patients (12 patients with portal hypertension, 12 healthy controls,
and 12 non-cirrhosis patients) were enrolled in this university hospital study.
Intestinal bacteria and statistical analyses were performed up to the genus level
using the terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism method targeting 16S 
ribosomal RNA genes, with diversified regions characterizing each bacterium.
Results Levels of Lactobacillales were significantly higher (p=0.045) and those
of Clostridium cluster IV significantly lower (p=0.014) in patients with portal
hypertension than in other patients. This Clostridium cluster contains many
butanoic acid-producing strains, including Ruminococcace and Faecalibacterium
prausnitzii. Clostridium cluster IX levels were also significantly lower
(p=0.045) in portal hypertension patients than in other patients. There are many 
strains of Clostridium that produce propionic acid, and the effects on the host
and the function of these bacterial species in the human intestine remain
unknown. Regarding the Bifidobacterium genus, which is supposed to decrease as a 
result of cirrhosis, no significant decrease was observed in this study.
Conclusion In the present study, we provided information on the characteristics
of the gut microbiota of portal hypertension patients with esophago-gastric
varices due to liver cirrhosis. In the future, we aim to develop probiotic
treatments following further analyses that include the species level, such as the
intestinal flora analysis method and next-generation sequencers.

DOI: 10.2169/internalmedicine.4628-20 
PMCID: PMC7516306
PMID: 32879200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

