
1. Nutrients. 2020 Sep 24;12(10). pii: E2917. doi: 10.3390/nu12102917.

Effects of a Low-Fat Vegan Diet on Gut Microbiota in Overweight Individuals and
Relationships with Body Weight, Body Composition, and Insulin Sensitivity. A
Randomized Clinical Trial.

Kahleova H(1), Rembert E(1), Alwarith J(1), Yonas WN(1), Tura A(2), Holubkov
R(3), Agnello M(4), Chutkan R(5), Barnard ND(1)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, Washington, DC 20016, USA.
(2)Metabolic Unit, CNR Institute of Neuroscience, 35127 Padua, Italy.
(3)School of Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT 84132, USA.
(4)uBiome Inc., San Francisco, CA 94103, USA.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Georgetown MedStar Hospital, Washington, DC
20007, USA.
(6)Adjunct Faculty, George Washington University School of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Washington, DC 20052, USA.

Diet modulates gut microbiota and plays an important role in human health. The
aim of this study was to test the effect of a low-fat vegan diet on gut
microbiota and its association with weight, body composition, and insulin
resistance in overweight men and women. We enrolled 168 participants and randomly
assigned them to a vegan (n = 84) or a control group (n = 84) for 16 weeks. Of
these, 115 returned all gut microbiome samples. Gut microbiota composition was
assessed using uBiome Explorerâ„¢ kits. Body composition was measured using dual
energy X-ray absorptiometry. Insulin sensitivity was quantified with the
predicted clamp-derived insulin sensitivity index from a standard meal test.
Repeated measure ANOVA was used for statistical analysis. Body weight decreased
in the vegan group (treatment effect -5.9 kg [95% CI, -7.0 to -4.9 kg]; p <
0.001), mainly due to a reduction in fat mass (-3.9 kg [95% CI, -4.6 to -3.1 kg];
p < 0.001) and in visceral fat (-240 cm3 [95% CI, -345 to -135 kg]; p < 0.001).
PREDIcted M, insulin sensitivity index (PREDIM) increased in the vegan group
(treatment effect +0.83 [95% CI, +0.48 to +1.2]; p < 0.001). The relative
abundance of Faecalibacterium prausnitzii increased in the vegan group (+5.1%
[95% CI, +2.4 to +7.9%]; p < 0.001) and correlated negatively with changes in
weight (r = -0.24; p = 0.01), fat mass (r = -0.22; p = 0.02), and visceral fat (r
= -0.20; p = 0.03). The relative abundance of Bacteroides fragilis decreased in
both groups, but less in the vegan group, making the treatment effect positive
(+18.9% [95% CI, +14.2 to +23.7%]; p < 0.001), which correlated negatively with
changes in weight (r = -0.44; p < 0.001), fat mass (r = -0.43; p < 0.001), and
visceral fat (r = -0.28; p = 0.003) and positively with PREDIM (r = 0.36; p <
0.001), so a smaller reduction in Bacteroides fragilis was associated with a
greater loss of body weight, fat mass, visceral fat, and a greater increase in
insulin sensitivity. A low-fat vegan diet induced significant changes in gut
microbiota, which were related to changes in weight, body composition, and
insulin sensitivity in overweight adults, suggesting a potential use in clinical 
practice.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12102917 
PMID: 32987642 

