
1. PeerJ. 2020 Aug 3;8:e9622. doi: 10.7717/peerj.9622. eCollection 2020.

Gut microbiota of obese and diabetic Thai subjects and interplay with dietary
habits and blood profiles.

Gruneck L(1)(2), Kullawong N(2)(3), Kespechara K(4), Popluechai S(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Science, Mae Fah Luang University, Muang, Chiang Rai, Thailand.
(2)Gut Microbiome Research Group, Mae Fah Luang University, Muang, Chiang Rai,
Thailand.
(3)School of Health Science, Mae Fah Luang University, Muang, Chiang Rai,
Thailand.
(4)Sooksatharana (Social Enterprise) Co., Ltd., Muang, Phuket, Thailand.

Obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) have become major public health
issues globally. Recent research indicates that intestinal microbiota play roles 
in metabolic disorders. Though there are numerous studies focusing on gut
microbiota of health and obesity states, those are primarily focused on Western
countries. Comparatively, only a few investigations exist on gut microbiota of
people from Asian countries. In this study, the fecal microbiota of 30 adult
volunteers living in Chiang Rai Province, Thailand were examined using
next-generation sequencing (NGS) in association with blood profiles and dietary
habits. Subjects were categorized by body mass index (BMI) and health status as
follows; lean (L) = 8, overweight (OV) = 8, obese (OB) = 7 and diagnosed T2DM =
7. Members of T2DM group showed differences in dietary consumption and fasting
glucose level compared to BMI groups. A low level of high-density cholesterol
(HDL) was observed in the OB group. Principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) revealed
that microbial communities of T2DM subjects were clearly distinct from those of
OB. An analogous pattern was additionally illustrated by multiple factor analysis
(MFA) based on dietary habits, blood profiles, and fecal gut microbiota in BMI
and T2DM groups. In all four groups, Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes were the
predominant phyla. Abundance of Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, a
butyrate-producing bacterium, was significantly higher in OB than that in other
groups. This study is the first to examine the gut microbiota of adult Thais in
association with dietary intake and blood profiles and will provide the platform 
for future investigations.

Â© 2020 Gruneck et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.9622 
PMCID: PMC7409811
PMID: 32832269 

Conflict of interest statement: Kongkiat Kespechara is the president of
Sooksatharana (Social Enterprise) Co., Ltd, Thailand.

