
1. Anaerobe. 2020 Feb;61:102131. doi: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2019.102131. Epub 2019 Nov 
25.

Performance evaluation of a new matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization
time-of-flight mass spectrometry, ASTA MicroIDSys system, in bacterial
identification against clinical isolates of anaerobic bacteria.

Kim D(1), Ji S(1), Kim JR(1), Kim M(1), Byun JH(1), Yum JH(2), Yong D(1), Lee
K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Research Institute of Bacterial
Resistance, Yonsei University, College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory Science, Dong-eui University, Busan, South
Korea.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Research Institute of Bacterial
Resistance, Yonsei University, College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
Electronic address: leekcp@yuhs.ac.

INTRODUCTION: Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass
spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) has been introduced for bacterial identification. The
ASTA MicroIDSys system (ASTA, Suwon, Korea) is a new MALDI-TOF MS system
developed for species identification of microorganisms. We evaluated the
performance of MicroIDSys against clinical isolates of anaerobic bacteria.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 370 non-duplicated clinical isolates of
anaerobic bacteria were tested in this study. Bacterial identification with
MicroIDSys was performed with a direct smear method, and measured spectra were
analyzed using respective software. The results of MicroIDSys were compared with 
the results of Bruker Biotyper and 16S rRNA sequencing.
RESULTS: The overall agreement rates for the 370 clinical isolates (34 genera and
99 species) were 95.4% (353/370) at the genus level and 91.6% (n = 340) at the
species level. Only 17 isolates were incorrectly identified at the genus level:
five misidentifications and 12 unidentifications. The MicroIDSys system exhibited
excellent performance in the identification of clinically relevant bacterial
species. Most of the Bacteroides isolates (98.0%, 99/101) and all of the
Clostridium difficile (100%, n = 11), Clostridium perfringens (100%, n = 10),
Finegoldia magna (100%, n = 11), and Parvimonas micra (100%, n = 10) isolates
were correctly identified at the species level.
CONCLUSION: The MicroIDSys system proved useful in the identification of
anaerobic bacteria, especially clinically relevant species. This system could be 
of use in clinical microbiology laboratories as a primary tool for identifying
anaerobic bacteria.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2019.102131 
PMID: 31778809 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None to
declare.

