
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Jun 18;9(6). pii: E341. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9060341.

Breast Abscesses Caused by Anaerobic Microorganisms: Clinical and Microbiological
Characteristics.

Cobo F(1), Guillot V(1), Navarro-Marí JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria
ibs.GRANADA, University Hospital Virgen de las Nieves, 18014 Granada, Spain.

The objectives of this study were to report the antimicrobial susceptibility of
35 clinically significant anaerobic bacteria isolated from breast abscesses
between March 2017 and February 2020 in a tertiary hospital in Granada (Spain)
and to describe key clinical features of the patients. Species identification was
performed mainly by MALDI-TOF MS. Antimicrobial susceptibility tests were carried
out against benzylpenicillin, amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, imipenem,
moxifloxacin, clindamycin, metronidazole, and piperacillin-tazobactam using the
gradient diffusion technique and European Committee on Antimicrobial
Susceptibility Testing EUCAST breakpoints (except for moxifloxacin). The most
frequent anaerobes were Finegoldia magna (31.4%; n = 11), Actinomyces spp.
(17.1%; n = 6), Propionibacterium spp. (17.1%; n = 6), and Prevotella spp.
(14.2%; n = 5). Imipenem, amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, and
piperacillin-tazobactam were universally active against all genera tested. High
overall resistance rates to clindamycin were observed, especially for
Gram-positive anaerobic cocci (56.2%) and Gram-positive anaerobic bacilli
(38.4%). High resistance rates to metronidazole were also observed for
Gram-positive (76.9%) and Gram-negative anaerobic bacilli (50%). High resistance 
rates to moxifloxacin were found for Gram-negative anaerobic bacilli (50%) and
Gram-positive anaerobic cocci (31.2%). No breast abscess cases of Bacteroides
spp. were detected. Routine antimicrobial susceptibility testing for anaerobes in
breast abscesses may contribute to allow empirical therapies to be selected in
accordance with local data on resistant strains.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9060341 
PMCID: PMC7345347
PMID: 32570867 

