
1. Mol Biol Rep. 2020 Aug 17. doi: 10.1007/s11033-020-05727-6. [Epub ahead of print]

Oral administration of Flavonifractor plautii attenuates inflammatory responses
in obese adipose tissue.

Mikami A(1), Ogita T(1), Namai F(1), Shigemori S(1), Sato T(1), Shimosato T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomolecular Innovation, Institute for Biomedical Sciences,
Shinshu University, Nagano, 399-4598, Japan.
(2)Department of Biomolecular Innovation, Institute for Biomedical Sciences,
Shinshu University, Nagano, 399-4598, Japan. shimot@shinshu-u.ac.jp.

Adipose tissue inflammation enhances the symptoms of metabolic syndrome.
Flavonifractor plautii, a bacterium present in human feces, has been reported to 
participate in the metabolism of catechin in the gut. The precise function of F. 
plautii remains unclear. We assessed the immunoregulatory function of F. plautii 
both in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, we showed that both viable and heat-killed
F. plautii attenuated TNF-α transcript accumulation in
lipopolysaccharide-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells. For the in vivo experiment, male
C57BL/6 were placed on a high-fat diet (HFD) for 11 weeks. During the final two
weeks on the HFD, the animals were administered with F. plautii by once-daily
oral gavage. The oral administration of F. plautii attenuated the increase in
TNF-α transcription otherwise seen in the epididymal adipose tissue of HFD-fed
obese mice (HFD + F. plautii). The composition of the microbial population (at
the genus level) in the cecal contents of the HFD + F. plautii mice was altered
considerably. In particular, the level of Sphingobium was decreased
significantly, and that of Lachnospiraceae was increased significantly, in the
HFD + F. plautii group. Obesity is closely associated with the development of
inflammation in adipose tissue. F. plautii may be involved in inhibition of TNF-α
expression in inflammatory environments. Our results demonstrated that F. plautii
may be useful for alleviating the inflammatory responses of adipose tissue.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-020-05727-6 
PMID: 32808115 

