
1. mSystems. 2019 Nov 12;4(6). pii: e00438-19. doi: 10.1128/mSystems.00438-19.

Association of Flavonifractor plautii, a Flavonoid-Degrading Bacterium, with the 
Gut Microbiome of Colorectal Cancer Patients in India.

Gupta A(#)(1), Dhakan DB(#)(1), Maji A(#)(1), Saxena R(1), P K VP(1), Mahajan
S(1), Pulikkan J(2), Kurian J(3), Gomez AM(4), Scaria J(5), Amato KR(6), Sharma
AK(1)(4), Sharma VK(7).

Author information: 
(1)Metagenomics and Systems Biology Group, Department of Biological Sciences,
Indian Institute of Science Education and Research Bhopal, Bhopal, India.
(2)Department of Genomic Science, Central University of Kerala, Kasargod, India.
(3)Department of Oncology, Amala Institute of Medical Sciences, Thrissur, India.
(4)Department of Animal Science, Department of Food Science and Nutrition,
University of Minnesota, Saint Paul, Minnesota, USA.
(5)Animal Disease Research & Diagnostic Laboratory, South Dakota State
University, Brookings, South Dakota, USA.
(6)Department of Anthropology, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois, USA.
(7)Metagenomics and Systems Biology Group, Department of Biological Sciences,
Indian Institute of Science Education and Research Bhopal, Bhopal, India
vineetks@iiserb.ac.in.
(#)Contributed equally

Recently, dysbiosis in the human gut microbiome and shifts in the relative
abundances of several bacterial species have been recognized as important factors
in colorectal cancer (CRC). However, these studies have been carried out mainly
in developed countries where CRC has a high incidence, and it is unclear whether 
the host-microbiome relationships deduced from these studies can be generalized
to the global population. To test if the documented associations between the
microbiome and CRC are conserved in a distinct context, we performed metagenomic 
and metabolomic association studies on fecal samples from 30 CRC patients and 30 
healthy controls from two different locations in India, followed by a comparison 
of CRC data available from other populations. We confirmed the association of
Bacteroides and other bacterial taxa with CRC that have been previously reported 
in other studies. However, the association of CRC with Flavonifractor plautii in 
Indian patients emerged as a novel finding. The plausible role of F. plautii
appears to be linked with the degradation of beneficial anticarcinogenic
flavonoids, which was also found to be significantly correlated with the enzymes 
and modules involved in flavonoid degradation within Indian CRC samples. Thus, we
hypothesize that the degradation of beneficial flavonoids might be playing a role
in cancer progression within this Indian cohort. We also identified 20 potential 
microbial taxonomic markers and 33 potential microbial gene markers that
discriminate the Indian CRC from healthy microbiomes with high accuracy based on 
machine learning approaches.IMPORTANCE This study provides novel insights on the 
CRC-associated microbiome of a unique cohort in India, reveals the potential role
of a new bacterium in CRC, and identifies cohort-specific biomarkers, which can
potentially be used in noninvasive diagnosis of CRC. The study gains additional
significance, as India is among the countries with a very low incidence of CRC,
and the diet and lifestyle in India have been associated with a distinct gut
microbiome in healthy Indians compared to other global populations. Thus, in this
study, we hypothesize a unique relationship between CRC and the gut microbiome in
an Indian population.

Copyright Â© 2019 Gupta et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSystems.00438-19 
PMCID: PMC7407896
PMID: 31719139 

