
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Feb;70(2):1037-1041. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003867.

Flavobacterium microcysteis sp. nov., isolated from a culture of Microcystis
aeruginosa.

Seo YL(1), Jeong SE(1), Jin HM(2), Jeon CO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Science, Chung-Ang University, Seoul 06974, Republic of
Korea.
(2)Microbial Research Department, Nakdonggang National Institute of Biological
Resources, Sangju-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do 37242, Republic of Korea.

A Gram-stain-negative, yellow-pigmented, strictly aerobic bacterium, designated
strain MaA-Y11T, was isolated from a culture of Microcystis aeruginosa in the
Republic of Korea. Cells were non-motile rods showing catalase- and
oxidase-positive reactions. Growth of strain MaA-Y11T was observed at 25-37 °C
(optimum, 30 °C) and pH 6.0-9.0 (optimum, 7.0) and in the presence of 0-1.0 %
(w/v) NaCl (optimum, 0 %). Strain MaA-Y11T did not produce flexirubin-type
pigments. Strain MaA-Y11T contained iso-C15 : 0, iso-C17 : 0 3-OH and summed
feature 3 (C16 : 1ω7c and/or C16 : 1ω6c) as major cellular fatty acids and
menaquinone-6 as the sole isoprenoid quinone. Phosphatidylethanolamine, three
unidentified aminolipids and four unidentified lipids were detected as the major 
polar lipids. The G+C content of the genomic DNA was 37.0 mol%. Phylogenetic
analysis, based on 16S rRNA gene sequences, showed that strain MaA-Y11T formed a 
phyletic lineage with Flavobacterium lindanitolerans IP-10T within the genus
Flavobacterium. Strain MaA-Y11T was most closely related to Flavobacterium
lindanitolerans IP-10T, with a 98.85 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity, and
shared less than 93.87 % sequence similarities with other type strains. Average
nucleotide identity and in silico DNA-DNA hybridization values between strain
MaA-Y11T and the type strain of F. lindanitolerans were 87.0 and 32.3 %,
respectively. Here, we conclude that strain MaA-Y11T represents a new species of 
the genus Flavobacterium, for which the name Flavobacterium microcysteis sp. nov.
is proposed. The type strain is MaA-Y11T (=KACC 21225T=JCM 33501T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003867 
PMID: 31730028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

