
1. Front Pharmacol. 2019 Oct 17;10:1229. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2019.01229. eCollection 
2019.

Patchouli Essential Oil and Its Derived Compounds Revealed Prebiotic-Like Effects
in C57BL/6J Mice.

Leong W(1), Huang G(1), Khan I(1), Xia W(1), Li Y(2), Liu Y(2), Li X(1), Han
R(1), Su Z(2), Hsiao WLW(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Macau University
of Science and Technology, Macau, China.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of New Chinese Medicinal Development and
Research, Mathematical Engineering Academy of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou
University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China.

Pogostemon cablin (Blanco) Benth (PC) is a Chinese medicinal plant traditionally 
used for the treatment of gastrointestinal symptoms. To investigate the prebiotic
effect of patchouli essential oil (PEO) and its derived compounds through the
modulation of gut microbiota (GM). C57BL/6J mice were treated with the PEO and
three active components of PEO, i.e. patchouli alcohol (PA), pogostone (PO) and
β-patchoulene (β-PAE) for 15 consecutive days. Fecal samples and mucosa were
collected for GM biomarkers studies. PEO, PA, PO, and β-PAE improve the gut
epithelial barrier by altering the status of E-cadherin vs. N-cadherin
expressions, and increasing the mucosal p-lysozyme and Muc 2. Moreover, the
treatments also facilitate the polarization of M1 to M2 macrophage phenotypes,
meanwhile, suppress the pro-inflammatory cytokines. Fecal microbial DNAs were
analyzed and evaluated for GM composition by ERIC-PCR and 16S rRNA amplicon
sequencing. The GM diversity was increased with the treated groups compared to
the control. Further analysis showed that some known short chain fatty acids
(SCFAs)-producing bacteria, e.g. Anaerostipes butyraticus, Butytivibrio
fibrisolvens, Clostridium jejuense, Eubacterium uniforme, and Lactobacillus
lactis were significantly enriched in the treated groups. In addition, the key
SCFAs receptors, GPR 41, 43 and 109a, were significantly stimulated in the gut
epithelial layer of the treated mice. By contract, the relative abundance of
pathogens Sutterlla spp., Fusobacterium mortiferum, and Helicobacter spp. were
distinctly reduced by the treatments with PEO and β-PAE. Our findings provide
insightful information that the microbiota/host dynamic interaction may play a
key role for the pharmacological activities of PEO, PA, PO, and β-PAE.

Copyright © 2019 Leong, Huang, Khan, Xia, Li, Liu, Li, Han, Su and Hsiao.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2019.01229 
PMCID: PMC6812344
PMID: 31680986 

