
1. J Agric Food Chem. 2020 Sep 9;68(36):9804-9815. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.0c03587.
Epub 2020 Aug 26.

Reciprocal Interactions between Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) and Human Gut
Microbiota In Vitro.

Liu Z(1)(2), de Bruijn WJC(1), Bruins ME(3), Vincken JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Food Chemistry, Wageningen University, P.O. Box 17, 6700 AA
Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(2)Institute of Food Science & Technology, Fuzhou University, Fuzhou 350108, P.
R. China.
(3)Food & Biobased Research, Wageningen University & Research, P.O. Box 17, 6700 
AA Wageningen, The Netherlands.

Interaction of tea phenolics with gut microbiota may play an integral role in the
health benefits of these bioactive compounds, yet this interaction is not fully
understood. Here, the metabolic fate of epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) and its
impact on gut microbiota were integrally investigated via in vitro fermentation. 
As revealed by ultrahigh performance liquid chromatography hybrid quadrupole
Orbitrap mass spectrometry (UHPLC-Q-Orbitrap-MS), EGCG was promptly degraded into
a series of metabolites, including 4-phenylbutyric acid,
3-(3',4'-dihydroxyphenyl)propionic acid, and 3-(4'-hydroxyphenyl)propionic acid, 
through consecutive ester hydrolysis, C-ring opening, A-ring fission,
dehydroxylation, and aliphatic chain shortening. Microbiome profiling indicated
that, compared to the blank, EGCG treatment resulted in stimulation of the
beneficial bacteria Bacteroides, Christensenellaceae, and Bifidobacterium.
Additionally, the pathogenic bacteria Fusobacterium varium, Bilophila, and
Enterobacteriaceae were inhibited. Furthermore, changes in concentrations of
metabolites, including 4-phenylbutyric acid and phenylacetic acid, were strongly 
correlated with changes in the abundance of specific gut microbiota. These
reciprocal interactions between EGCG and gut microbiota may collectively
contribute to the health benefits of EGCG.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.0c03587 
PMCID: PMC7496747
PMID: 32808768 

