
1. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Aug 18;17(16). pii: E6002. doi:
10.3390/ijerph17166002.

Spreading or Gathering? Can Traditional Knowledge be a Resource to Tackle
Reindeer Diseases Associated with Climate Change?

Riseth JÅ(1), Tømmervik H(2), Tryland M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Social Sciences, NORCE, Rombaksvegen E6 47, N-8517 Narvik,
Norway.
(2)Norwegian Institute for Nature Research-NINA, FRAM-High North Research Centre 
for Climate and the Environment, P.O. Box 6606 Langnes, N-9296 Tromsø, Norway.
(3)Department of Arctic and Marine Biology, UiT The Arctic University of Norway, 
Framstredet 39, N-9037 Tromsø, Norway.

This paper inquires whether reindeer herders' traditional knowledge (TK) provides
a reservoir of precaution and adaptation possibilities that may be relevant to
counteract climate change. As our core example, we used the milking of
reindeer-which, in some areas, was practiced up until the 1950s-1960s-and the
risk of getting foot rot disease (digital necrobacillosis; slubbo in North Sámi),
caused by the bacterium Fusobacterium necrophorum. Via wounds or scratches, the
bacterium creates an infection that makes the infected limb swell and,
eventually, necrotize. The disease is often mortal in its final stage.
Historically, female reindeer were gathered on unfenced milking meadows near
herder tents or in small corrals, from early summer onward. When the soil was wet
and muddy, the risk of developing digital necrobacillosis was considerable. Our
sources included classical Sámi author/herder narratives, ethnographic and
veterinary literature, and herder interviews. For this study, we conducted a
qualitative review of the literature and carried out individual in-depth
interviews with local knowledge holders. Our findings seem consistent: a
documented prevention strategy was, in early summer, to move the reindeer to
unused grazing land and to avoid staying too long in trampled and dirty grazing
land. Contemporary climate change and winter uncertainty due to freeze-thaw
cycles and ice-locked pastures challenge this type of strategy. Due to a lack of 
pasture resources, typical actions today include the increased use of
supplementary feeding, which involves more gathering and handling of reindeer,
higher animal density, challenging hygienic conditions, and stress, which all
contribute to increased risks of contracting and transmitting diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17166002 
PMCID: PMC7459598
PMID: 32824833 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interests.

