
1. Int J Biol Sci. 2020 Jan 1;16(1):135-146. doi: 10.7150/ijbs.37399. eCollection
2020.

Gut microbiome associated with APC gene mutation in patients with intestinal
adenomatous polyps.

Liang S(1), Mao Y(2), Liao M(3)(4)(5), Xu Y(3), Chen Y(6)(4), Huang X(1), Wei
C(1), Wu C(1), Wang Q(6)(4), Pan X(6), Tang W(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Guangxi Medical University Affiliated Tumor Hospital, Nanning, Guangxi,
530021, China.
(2)Oncology Department, Nanning Second People's Hospital, The Third Affiliated
Hospital of Guangxi Medical University, Nanning, Guangxi, 530031, China.
(3)The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi Medical University, Nanning, Guangxi,
530021, China.
(4)Guangxi Key Laboratory of Genomic and Personalized Medicine, Nanning, Guangxi,
530021, China.
(5)Department of Reproductive Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi
Medical University, Nanning, Guangxi, 530021, China.
(6)Guangxi Medical University, Nanning, Guangxi, 530021, China.

Background: The 'adenoma-carcinoma sequence' is a well-recognized model of
colorectal cancer (CRC) development. However, the interaction between gut
microbiota and genetic variation in the initiation of CRC is not clear. Our study
attempts to demonstrate the relationship between gut microbiota and host genetics
in patients with intestinal adenomatous polyps. Method: The entire exon region of
the APC gene was sequenced in 35 patients with pathologically diagnosed
adenomatous polyps. Patients with highly pathogenic APC mutation were classified 
as the case group, while the others were classified as the control group. The
patients'stool and serum samples were respectively collected for metagenomics and
metabolomics measurements. Results: In the analysis of gut microbiome, there were
three most important species, in which Fusobacterium_mortiferum was significantly
increased while Faecalibacterium_prausnitzii and
Bifidobacterium_pseudocatenulatum were significantly decreased in the case group.
The significantly low abundance of the Photosynthesis pathway in patients with
APC mutation was due to the low abundance of species Faecalibacterium_prausnitzii
and Bifidobacterium_pseudocatenulatum. Moreover, there were two clusters of KEGG 
pathways correlated with two clusters of species characterized by
Faecalibacterium_prausnitzii and Fusobacterium_mortiferum. As to serum
metabolomics, the abundance of (R)-3-Hydroxybutyric acid and
2-Hydroxyphenethylamine were significantly higher in patients with APC mutation, 
while the abundance of 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid,7-Ketocholesterol,
DL-lactate, and L-Pyroglutamic acid were significantly higher in controlgroup.
After analyzing the metabolome and microbiome data by sparCCmethod, we found that
there was a significantly negative correlation between the abundance of
Faecalibacterium_prausnitzii and Fusobacterium_mortiferum, and a significantly
positive correlation between Faecalibacterium_prausnitzii abundance and the
steroid hormone Hydrocortisone (Cortisol) in serum. Conclusions: Host's APC
mutation was closely related to the changes of gut microbiota and serum
metabolites, and some species of gut microbiome like Faecalibacterium_prausnitzii
and Fusobacterium_mortiferum might have the potential to predict the development 
of CRC from intestinal adenomatous polyps.

Â© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/ijbs.37399 
PMCID: PMC6930378
PMID: 31892851 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared
that no competing interest exists.

