
1. IDCases. 2020 Jul 25;21:e00922. doi: 10.1016/j.idcr.2020.e00922. eCollection
2020.

A case report of primary sternal osteomyelitis caused by polymicrobial bacteria, 
including Actinomyces israelii.

Hamanaka R(1)(2), Hashimoto T(1), Mizukami E(1), Okutsu Y(3), Masutomo K(2),
Komiya K(1), Nureki SI(1), Shimoda K(4), Hiramatsu K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Oita University
Faculty of Medicine, Japan.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Usuki City Medical Association Hospital,
Japan.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Usuki City Medical Association Hospital, Japan.
(4)Department of Surgery, Usuki City Medical Association Hospital, Japan.

We herein report a case of primary sternal osteomyelitis caused by polymicrobial 
bacteria, including Actinomyces israelii. A 72-year-old man presented with a
fever and precordial pain. Chest computed tomography (CT) revealed peristernal
fluid associated with an osteolytic lesion and a peripheral nodule in the right
upper lobe. We suspected sternal osteomyelitis, and an incision and drainage were
performed. Culture of the drainage fluid and bone tissue yielded A. israelii,
Fusobacterium necrophorum, and Streptococcus constellatus. Treatment with
benzylpenicillin potassium (PCG) was administered. A subsequent chest CT scan
showed that the peripheral nodule decreased in size after antimicrobial therapy. 
We therefore presumed the peripheral nodule as septic pulmonary embolism(SPE).
Antimicrobial agents were administered for a total of 6 months. To our knowledge,
this is the first case report of primary sternal osteomyelitis associated with
presumed SPE caused by polymicrobial bacteria, including A. israelii. It is
important to identify the causative pathogen in osteomyelitis, which requires
long-term antibiotic treatment.

Â© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.idcr.2020.e00922 
PMCID: PMC7396817
PMID: 32775208 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.

