
1. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 2020 Aug 18;138:110324. doi:
10.1016/j.ijporl.2020.110324. [Epub ahead of print]

Medical and surgical characteristics of fusobacterium necrophorum mastoiditis in 
children.

Ulanovski D(1), Shavit SS(1), Scheuerman O(2), Sokolov M(1), Hilly O(3), Raveh
E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pediatric Ear-Nose-Throat Unit, Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel,
Petach Tikva, Israel; Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv,
Israel.
(2)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel; Department
of Pediatrics B, Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, Petach Tikva,
Israel.
(3)Pediatric Ear-Nose-Throat Unit, Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel,
Petach Tikva, Israel; Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv,
Israel. Electronic address: ulanovski@yahoo.com.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate and compare characteristics of Fusobacterium necrophorum 
mastoiditis (FnM) to characteristics of acute mastoiditis (AM) caused by other
bacteria in tertiary children hospital Methods : Children with FnM (N=43) and non
FnM (N=88). Assess medical, microbiologic and imaging characteristics, surgical
findings and postoperative recovery.
RESULTS: Children with FnM had a positive history of otitis media, ear discharge 
and sub-periosteal abscess (p=0.0004, 0.09, 0.0003, respectively) at
presentation. Their temperature, WBC and CRP were significantly higher (39.8 vs. 
37.9, 19.4K vs. 16.1K, 21 vs. 8.7, p=0.0001). Positive culture was found in 46%
of patients; 64% were diagnosed by PCR. CT scan was indicated in 95% and surgical
intervention in 93% of children with FnM, compared to 15% and 9.7% of children in
the non-FnM group (p=0.0001). Complex post-operative course was frequent for the 
FnM group: 88% of children had persistent fever, 46% had additional imaging and
14% additional surgical intervention. Children with FnM were treated with IV
antibiotics for an average of 22 compared to seven days for non-FnM children
(p=0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Fusobacterium should be suspect in a child presenting with AM, a
septic appearance, high fever and increased inflammation markers. A regimen of
two antibiotics should be empirically started, then proceed to imaging and early 
surgical intervention. A relatively slow post-operative recovery process should
be expected; however, prognosis is good.

Copyright Â© 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2020.110324 
PMID: 32911237 

