
1. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 2020 Sep;136:110213. doi:
10.1016/j.ijporl.2020.110213. Epub 2020 Jun 23.

Lemierre's syndrome in the pediatric population: Trends in disease presentation
and management in literature.

Patel PN(1), Levi JR(2), Cohen MB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Boston Medical Center, Department of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery,
Boston, USA. Electronic address: prachi.patel@bmc.org.
(2)Boston Medical Center, Department of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery,
Boston, USA. Electronic address: Jessica.Levi@bmc.org.
(3)Boston Medical Center, Department of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery,
Boston, USA. Electronic address: michael.cohen@bmc.org.

OBJECTIVE: This study aims to examine literature on Lemierre's Syndrome (LS) in
the pediatric population over time in order to describe patterns in disease
progression, management, and prognosis. In addition, this study assesses specific
rate of literature output and the location of research over the past 10 years.
METHODS: A literature review was conducted through two databases, PubMed.gov and 
PMC. A search was conducted using the keywords "Lemierre syndrome" and
"postanginal sepsis." Literature was primarily reviewed for demographic,
radiographic, and clinical data. Articles were included in the study if they were
published in English and within the last 10 years. All types of research studies 
were recorded, however primary data collection came from case reports and series.
Publications were grouped into two time periods: 2009-2013 and 2014-2019,
allowing for comparison of various characteristics between these two groups.
RESULTS: A total of 124 research studies on LS met inclusion criteria and were
reviewed. Of these, 98 case reports (79.0%) were examined. Disease
Characteristics: Fusobacterium necrophorum was the most common precipitating
pathogen isolated from cultures (66.2%). The main primary treatment modalities
used were antimicrobials, surgery, anticoagulation, or a combination of these
treatments. A total of 63.9% of the case reports indicated use of anticoagulation
at some point during treatment. Publication Trends: The number of published
studies has not significantly changed in the last decade, with a
non-statistically significant decline of 5.6%, when comparing 2014-2019 to
2009-2013 (p = 0.21). Case reports/series were the most common study design
(82.2% vs 69.5%) and level of evidence for published studies continued to be
stable (level 4-5) through the years (86.9%). The number of publications within
an international journal vs US based journal has also remained steady during both
time periods (p = 0.698).
CONCLUSION: LS is an uncommon condition but one that is important for physicians 
to be aware of in the pediatric population. Treatment regimens including
antibiotics and anticoagulation have remained stable through the past 10 years,
however the efficacy of anticoagulation in treating LS continues to be debated.
Though LS is considered a severe illness with potentially life threatening
complications, publications on this topic, in pediatrics specifically, have
decreased within the past five years.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2020.110213 
PMID: 32797805 

