
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Oct 1;10(1):16240. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-73448-8.

Fusobacterium nucleatum is associated with worse prognosis in Lauren's diffuse
type gastric cancer patients.

Boehm ET(1), Thon C(1), Kupcinskas J(2)(3), Steponaitiene R(2), Skieceviciene
J(2), Canbay A(1), Malfertheiner P(1), Link A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Infectious Diseases,
Otto-Von-Guericke University Magdeburg, Leipziger Str. 44, 39120, Magdeburg,
Germany.
(2)Institute for Digestive Research, Lithuanian University of Health Sciences,
Kaunas, Lithuania.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Lithuanian University of Health Sciences,
Kaunas, Lithuania.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Infectious Diseases,
Otto-Von-Guericke University Magdeburg, Leipziger Str. 44, 39120, Magdeburg,
Germany. alinkmail@gmail.com.

Fusobacterium nucleatum (F. nucleatum) is frequently detected in primary
colorectal cancer (CRC) and matching metastasis, and has been linked to a worse
prognosis. We investigated the presence of F. nucleatum in gastric cancer (GC)
and gastric preneoplastic conditions of the stomach, and its potential prognostic
value in GC patients. Fusobacterium spp. and F. nucleatum were quantified in
various specimens from gastrointestinal tract including paired CRC and GC tissues
using probe-based qPCR. Fusobacterium spp. and F. nucleatum were more frequently 
found in tumorous tissue of CRC and GC compared to non-tumorous tissues. The
frequency and bacterial load were higher in CRC compared to GC patients. F.
nucleatum positivity showed no association to chronic gastritis or preneoplastic 
conditions such as intestinal metaplasia. F. nucleatum-positivity was associated 
with significantly worse overall survival in patients with Lauren's diffuse type,
but not with intestinal type GC. There was no association with gender,
Helicobacter pylori-status, tumor stage or tumor localization. However, F.
nucleatum was positively associated with patient's age and a trend for a lower
global long interspersed element-1 DNA methylation. In conclusion, our work
provides novel evidence for clinical relevance of F. nucleatum in GC by showing
an association between F. nucleatum positivity with worse prognosis of patients
with Laurens's diffuse type gastric cancer. Further studies are necessary to
explore related mechanistic insights and potential therapeutic benefit of
targeted antibiotic treatment in GC patients.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-73448-8 
PMID: 33004953 

