
1. J Inorg Biochem. 2020 Sep 6;212:111250. doi: 10.1016/j.jinorgbio.2020.111250.
[Epub ahead of print]

Cu(II) complexes with peptides from FomA protein containing -His-Xaa-Yaa-Zaa-His 
and -His-His-motifs. ROS generation and DNA degradation.

Lesiów MK(1), Bieńko A(2), Sobańska K(3), Kowalik-Jankowska T(2), Rolka K(4),
Łęgowska A(4), Ptaszyńska N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Chemistry, University of Wrocław, F. Joliot-Curie 14, 50-383
Wrocław, Poland. Electronic address: monika.lesiow@chem.uni.wroc.pl.
(2)Faculty of Chemistry, University of Wrocław, F. Joliot-Curie 14, 50-383
Wrocław, Poland.
(3)Faculty of Chemistry, Jagiellonian University, Gronostajowa 2, 30-387 Kraków, 
Poland.
(4)Faculty of Chemistry, University of Gdańsk, Wita Stwosza 63, 80-308 Gdańsk,
Poland.

Mono- and dinuclear Cu(II) complexes with Ac-PTVHNEYH-NH2 (L1) and Ac-NHHTLND-NH2
(L2) peptides from FomA protein of Fusobacterium nucleatum were studied by
potentiometry, spectroscopic methods (UV-Vis, CD, EPR) and MS technique. The
dominant mononuclear complexes for L1 ligand are: CuHL (pH range 5.0-6.0) with 2N
{2Nim}, CuH-2L (pH range 8.0-8.5) and CuH-3L species (above pH 9.0) with 4N {Nim,
3N-} coordination modes. The complexes: CuH-1L with 3N {2Nim, N-}, CuH-2L with 3N
{Nim, 2N-} and CuH-3L with 4N {Nim, 3N-} binding sites are proposed for the L2
ligand. Probably in the CuH-2L complex for CuL2 system the second His residue in 
His-His sequence is bound to Cu(II) ion, while the first His residue may
stabilize this complex by His-His and/or His-Cu(II) interactions. The dominant
dinuclear Cu2L1 complexes in the pH range 6.5-10.5 are: the Cu2H-4L and Cu2H-6L
species with 3N{Nim, 2N-}4N{Nim, 3N-} and 4N{Nim, 3N-}4N{Nim, 3N-} binding sites,
respectively. In the case of the Cu2L2 complex in the pH range 7.2-10.5, the
Cu2H-4L and Cu2H-7L species dominate with 2N{Nim, N-}4N{Nim, 3N-} and
(Cu(OH)42-4N{Nim, 3N-}) coordination modes, respectively. The ability to generate
reactive oxygen species (ROS) by uncomplexed Cu(II) ions, ligands and their
complexes at pH 7.4 in the presence of hydrogen peroxide or ascorbic acid was
studied. UV-Vis, luminescence, EPR spin trapping and gel electrophoresis methods 
were used. Both complexes produce higher level of ROS compared to those of their 
ligands. ROS produced by Cu(II) complexes are hydroxyl radical and singlet
oxygen, which contribute to oxidative DNA cleavage.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jinorgbio.2020.111250 
PMID: 32920436 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no conflict of interest.

