
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Oct 1;10(1):16299. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-73011-5.

Presence of bacterial DNA in thrombotic material of patients with myocardial
infarction.

Piñon-Esteban P(1), Núñez L(2), Moure R(3), Marrón-Liñares GM(2), Flores-Rios
X(4), Aldama-Lopez G(4), Salgado-Fernandez J(4), Calviño-Santos R(4)(5),
Rebollal-Leal F(4), Pan-Lizcano R(2), Vazquez-Gonzalez N(4)(5), Bou G(3), Tomás
M(3), Hermida-Prieto M(2), Vazquez-Rodriguez JM(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Cardiología. Complexo Hospitalario Universitario de A Coruña
(CHUAC), Sergas, Instituto de Investigación Biomédica de A Coruña (INIBIC),
Universidade da Coruña(UDC), As Xubias 84, 15006, A Coruña, Spain.
pablopesteban@mail.com.
(2)Grupo de investigación en Cardiología, Instituto de Investigación Biomédica de
A Coruña (INIBIC), Complexo Hospitalario Universitario de A Coruña (CHUAC),
Sergas. Universidade da Coruña (UDC), 15006, A Coruña, Spain.
(3)Grupo de investigación en Microbiología, Instituto de Investigación Biomédica 
de A Coruña (INIBIC)Complexo Hospitalario Universitario de A Coruña
(CHUAC)Sergas. Universidade da Coruña (UDC), 15006, A Coruña, Spain.
(4)Servicio de Cardiología. Complexo Hospitalario Universitario de A Coruña
(CHUAC), Sergas, Instituto de Investigación Biomédica de A Coruña (INIBIC),
Universidade da Coruña(UDC), As Xubias 84, 15006, A Coruña, Spain.
(5)CIBERCV (Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Enfermedades
Cardiovasculares), Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.

Infectious agents have been suggested to be involved in etiopathogenesis of Acute
Coronary Syndrome (ACS). However, the relationship between bacterial infection
and acute myocardial infarction (AMI) has not yet been completely clarified. The 
objective of this study is to detect bacterial DNA in thrombotic material of
patients with ACS with ST-segment elevation (STEMI) treated with Primary
Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PPCI). We studied 109 consecutive patients
with STEMI, who underwent thrombus aspiration and arterial peripheral blood
sampling. Testing for bacterial DNA was performed by probe-based real-time
Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR). 12 probes and primers were used for the
detection of Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans, Chlamydia pneumoniae,
viridans group streptococci, Porphyromonas gingivalis, Fusobacterium nucleatum,
Tannarella forsythia, Treponema denticola, Helycobacter pylori, Mycoplasma
pneumoniae, Staphylococus aureus,  Prevotella intermedia and Streptococcus
mutans. Thus, DNA of four species of bacteria was detected in 10 of the 109
patients studied. The most frequent species was viridans group streptococci (6
patients, 5.5%), followed by Staphylococus aureus (2 patients, 1.8%). Moreover, a
patient had DNA of Porphyromonas gingivalis (0.9%); and another patient had DNA
of Prevotella intermedia (0.9%). Bacterial DNA was not detected in peripheral
blood of any of our patients. In conclusion, DNA of four species of endodontic
and periodontal bacteria was detected in thrombotic material of 10 STEMI
patients. Bacterial DNA was not detected in the peripheral blood of patients with
bacterial DNA in their thrombotic material. Bacteria could be latently present in
plaques and might play a role in plaque instability and thrombus formation
leading to ACS.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-73011-5 
PMCID: PMC7530676
PMID: 33004892 

