
1. Reprod Biol. 2020 Sep;20(3):307-314. doi: 10.1016/j.repbio.2020.07.001. Epub 2020
Jul 14.

Use of a vaginal probiotic suppository and antibiotics to influence the
composition of the endometrial microbiota.

Kadogami D(1), Nakaoka Y(2), Morimoto Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)IVF Namba Clinic, Osaka 550-0015, Japan. Electronic address:
kadogami515@ivfjapan.com.
(2)IVF Namba Clinic, Osaka 550-0015, Japan.
(3)HORAC Grandfront Osaka Clinic, Osaka 530-0011, Japan.

The aim of the present study was to determine the status of the endometrial
microbiota in patients with repeated implantation failure (RIF) and to assess
treatment strategies for nondominant Lactobacillus (NLD) cases. A total of 392
patients with RIF were enrolled in this prospective cohort study (UMIN-CTR
000038582) and underwent endometrial microbiota analysis. Patients diagnosed with
NLD were treated with a combination of oral and vaginal probiotics or oral
prebiotics and antibiotics. The outcome was evaluated through re-analysis of the 
endometrial microbiota following treatment, and the results are presented as cure
rates. NLD represented 44.9 % of the total endometrial microbiota in patients
with RIF. The most commonly detected bacterium was Gardnerella vaginalis. The
cure rates in the oral probiotics + oral prebiotics, antibiotics, oral
probiotics + oral prebiotics + antibiotics, vaginal probiotic suppository, and
vaginal probiotic suppository + antibiotics groups were 29.5, 33.33, 33.33, 43.6,
and 78.6 %, respectively. Significant improvements were noted in the vaginal
probiotic suppository + antibiotics group. Moreover, we revealed that
approximately half of patients with RIF had NLD. Thus, the combination of a
vaginal probiotic suppository and antibiotics may represent an effective
treatment for NLD cases.

Copyright © 2020 Society for Biology of Reproduction & the Institute of Animal
Reproduction and Food Research of Polish Academy of Sciences in Olsztyn.
Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.repbio.2020.07.001 
PMID: 32680750 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.

