
1. BMC Infect Dis. 2020 Sep 1;20(1):642. doi: 10.1186/s12879-020-05349-0.

Co-infection with trichomonas vaginalis increases the risk of cervical
intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2-3 among HPV16 positive female: a large
population-based study.

Yang M(1), Li L(1), Jiang C(2), Qin X(1), Zhou M(1), Mao X(1), Xing H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Xiangyang Central Hospital,
Affiliated Hospital of Hubei University of Arts and Science, Xiangyang, 441021,
Hubei, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Xiangyang Central Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of
Hubei University of Arts and Science, Xiangyang, 441021, Hubei, China.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Xiangyang Central Hospital,
Affiliated Hospital of Hubei University of Arts and Science, Xiangyang, 441021,
Hubei, China. 50269@hbuas.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Evidence suggested that vaginal microbiome played a functional role
in the progression of cervical lesions in female infected by HPV. This study
aimed at evaluating the influence of common vaginal infection on the
carcinogenicity of high risk HPV (hr-HPV).
METHODS: From January 15, 2017 to December 31, 2017, 310,545 female aged at least
30 years old had been recruited for cervical cancer screening from 9 clinical
research centers in Central China. All the recruited participants received hr-HPV
genotyping for cervical cancer screening and vaginal microenvironment test by a
high vaginal swab. Colposcopy-directed biopsy was recommended for female who were
infected with HPV 16 and HPV 18, and other positive hr-HPV types through test had
undertaken triage using liquid-based cytology, cases with the results ≥ ASCUS
among them were referred to colposcopy directly, and cervical tissues were taken 
for pathology examination to make clear the presence or absence of other cervical
lesions.
RESULTS: Among 310,545 female, 6067 (1.95%) were tested with positive HPV 16 and 
HPV 18, 18,297 (5.89%) were tested with other positive hr-HPV genotypes, cervical
intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 1, CIN 2, CIN 3 and invasive cervical cancer
(ICC) were detected in 861 cases, 377 cases, 423 cases, and 77 cases,
respectively. Candida albicans and Gardnerella were not associated with the
detection of cervical lesions. Positive trichomonas vaginitis (TV) was correlated
with hr-HPV infection (p < 0.0001). Co-infection with TV increased the risk of
CIN 1 among female infected with hr-HPV (OR 1.18, 95% CI: 1.42-2.31).
Co-infection with TV increased the risk of CIN 2-3 among female infected with HPV
16 (OR 1.71, 95% CI: 1.16-2.53).
CONCLUSIONS: Co-infection of TV and HPV 16 is a significant factor for the
detection of cervical lesions.

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-020-05349-0 
PMCID: PMC7466445
PMID: 32873233  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

