
1. PLoS One. 2020 Jul 28;15(7):e0236036. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0236036.
eCollection 2020.

Changes in the vaginal microbiota following antibiotic treatment for Mycoplasma
genitalium, Chlamydia trachomatis and bacterial vaginosis.

Ahrens P(1), Andersen LO(1), Lilje B(1), Johannesen TB(1), Dahl EG(1)(2)(3), Baig
S(1), Jensen JS(1), Falk L(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bacteriology, Parasitology and Mycology, Statens Serum Institut,
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Department of Dermatovenereology, Linköping University Hospital, Linköping,
Sweden.
(3)Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences, Linköping University,
Linköping, Sweden.

The human vagina harbor a rich microbiota. The optimal state is dominated by
lactobacilli that help to maintain health and prevent various diseases. However, 
the microbiota may rapidly change to a polymicrobial state that has been linked
to a number of diseases. In the present study, the temporal changes of the
vaginal microbiota in patients treated for sexually transmitted diseases or
bacterial vaginosis (BV) and in untreated controls were studied for 26 days. The 
patients included 52 women treated with azithromycin, tetracyclines or
moxifloxacin for present or suspected infection with Chlamydia trachomatis or
Mycoplasma genitalium. Women with concurrent BV were also treated with
metronidazole. The controls were 10 healthy women of matching age. The microbiota
was analyzed by 16S rRNA gene deep sequencing, specific qPCRs and microscopy.
There was generally good correlation between Nugent score and community state
type (CST) and qPCR confirmed the sequencing results. By sequencing, more than
600 different taxa were found, but only 33 constituted more than 1 ‰ of the
sequences. In both patients and controls the microbiota could be divided into
three different community state types, CST-I, CST-III and CST-IV. Without
metronidazole, the microbiota remained relatively stable regarding CST although
changes were seen during menstrual periods. Administration of metronidazole
changed the microbiota from CST-IV to CST-III in approximately 50% of the treated
patients. In contrast, the CST was generally unaffected by azithromycin or
tetracyclines. In 30% of the BV patients, Gardnerella vaginalis was not
eradicated by metronidazole. The majority of women colonized with Ureaplasma
parvum remained positive after azithromycin while U. urealyticum was eradicated.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0236036 
PMCID: PMC7386580
PMID: 32722712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

