
1. Infect Dis Obstet Gynecol. 2020 Jul 2;2020:3176407. doi: 10.1155/2020/3176407.
eCollection 2020.

Prevalence of Genotypes and Subtypes of Gardnerella vaginalis in South African
Pregnant Women.

Pillay K(1), Nzimande S(1), Naicker M(1), Ramsuran V(2)(3), Tinarwo P(4), Abbai
N(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Clinical Medicine Laboratory, College of Health Sciences, University
of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.
(2)KwaZulu-Natal Research Innovation and Sequencing Platform (KRISP), School of
Laboratory Medicine and Medical Sciences, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Umbilo
Road, Durban, Private Bag 7, Congella, 4013, South Africa.
(3)Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA),
University of KwaZulu-Natal, Umbilo Road, Durban, Private Bag 7, Congella, 4013, 
South Africa.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, Nelson R. Mandela School of Medicine, University 
of KwaZulu-Natal, Durban, South Africa.

Background: Gardnerella vaginalis, a microorganism highly linked to bacterial
vaginosis (BV), is understudied in terms of genotypic heterogeneity in South
African populations. This study investigated the prevalence of G. vaginalis
genotypes in BV-positive, BV-intermediate, and BV-negative South African pregnant
women.
Methods: The study population included n = 354 pregnant women recruited from a
public hospital in Durban, South Africa. The women provided self-collected
vaginal swabs for BV diagnosis by Nugent scoring. For the genotyping assays, the 
16S rRNA and sialidase A genes from BV-negative, BV-intermediate, and BV-positive
samples were amplified with G. vaginalis-specific primers. The16S rRNA amplicon
was digested with TaqI to generate genotyping profiles, and subtypes were
determined by correlating BamHI and HindIII digestion profiles. Phylogenetic
analysis was performed on the 16S rRNA and sialidase A sequences. The data
analysis was performed with R Statistical Computing software, version 3.6.2.
Results: Two different genotypes, GT1 and GT2, were detected. The most prevalent 
genotype was GT1. Four subtypes (1, 2B, 2AB, and 2C) were shown to be present.
The most prevalent subtype was 2B, followed by subtypes 1, 2C, and 2AB. The
phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA showed the presence of 5 clusters. The tree
displayed clusters which contained sequences from the same BV group with
different genotypes and subtypes. Clusters with sequences from across the BV
groups carrying the same genotype and subtype were present. Diversity of the
sialidase A across BV groups and genotypes was observed. Finally, the study did
not find a significant association (p > 0.05) between reported symptoms of
abnormal vaginal discharge and genotype harboured.
Conclusion: This study provided the first report on the diversity of G. vaginalis
in South African pregnant women. Diversity assessments of G. vaginalis with
respect to genotypes and virulence factors may aid in a greater understanding of 
the pathogenesis of this microorganism.

Copyright Â© 2020 Kayla Pillay et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/3176407 
PMCID: PMC7352148
PMID: 32694908 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no financial
or personal relationship(s) that may have inappropriately influenced them in
writing this article.

