
1. Nutrients. 2020 Mar 31;12(4). pii: E966. doi: 10.3390/nu12040966.

Salivary Microbiota Shifts under Sustained Consumption of Oolong Tea in Healthy
Adults.

Liu Z(1), Guo H(1), Zhang W(1), Ni L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Food Science & Technology, Fuzhou University, Fuzhou 350108,
China.

Tea is the most widely consumed beverages next to water, however little is known 
about the influence of sustained tea consumption on the oral bacteria of healthy 
adults. In this study, three oral healthy adults were recruited and instructed to
consume 1.0 L of oolong tea infusions (total polyphenol content, 2.83 g/L) daily,
for eight weeks. Salivary microbiota pre-, peri-, and post-treatment were fully
compared by high-throughput 16S rRNA sequencing and multivariate statistical
analysis. It was revealed that oolong tea consumption reduced salivary bacterial 
diversity and the population of some oral disease related bacteria, such as
Streptococcus sp., Prevotella nanceiensis, Fusobacterium periodonticum,
Alloprevotella rava, and Prevotella elaninogenica. Moreover, via correlation
network and Venn diagram analyses, seven bacterial taxa, including Streptococcus 
sp. (OTU_1), Ruminococcaceae sp. (OTU_33), Haemophilus sp. (OTU_696), Veillonella
spp. (OTU_133 and OTU_23), Actinomyces odontolyticus (OTU_42), and Gemella
haemolysans (OTU_6), were significantly altered after oolong tea consumption, and
presented robust strong connections (|r| > 0.9 and p < 0.05) with other oral
microbiota. These results suggest sustained oolong tea consumption would modulate
salivary microbiota and generate potential oral pathogen preventative benefits.
Additionally, diverse responses to oolong tea consumption among subjects were
also noticed.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12040966 
PMCID: PMC7230163
PMID: 32244337 

