
1. ACS Catal. 2020 Jul 17;10(14):7907-7914. doi: 10.1021/acscatal.0c01856. Epub 2020
Jun 19.

Electric Field Measurements Reveal the Pivotal Role of Cofactor-Substrate
Interaction in Dihydrofolate Reductase Catalysis.

Adesina AS(1), Świderek K(2), Luk LYP(1), Moliner V(2), Allemann RK(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry, Cardiff University, Park Place, Cardiff CF10 3AT, United 
Kingdom.
(2)Departament de Química Física i Analítica, Universitat Jaume I, 12071
Castellón, Spain.

The contribution of ligand-ligand electrostatic interaction to transition state
formation during enzyme catalysis has remained unexplored, even though
electrostatic forces are known to play a major role in protein functions and have
been investigated by the vibrational Stark effect (VSE). To monitor electrostatic
changes along important steps during catalysis, we used a nitrile probe (T46C-CN)
inserted proximal to the reaction center of three dihydrofolate reductases
(DHFRs) with different biophysical properties, Escherichia coli DHFR (EcDHFR),
its conformationally impaired variant (EcDHFR-S148P), and Geobacillus
stearothermophilus DHFR (BsDHFR). Our combined experimental and computational
approach revealed that the electric field projected by the substrate toward the
probe negates those exerted by the cofactor when both are bound within the
enzymes. This indicates that compared to previous models that focus exclusively
on subdomain reorganization and protein-ligand contacts, ligand-ligand
interactions are the key driving force to generate electrostatic environments
conducive for catalysis.

Copyright © 2020 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.0c01856 
PMCID: PMC7467645
PMID: 32905264 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interest.

