
1. Food Chem. 2020 Aug 1;320:126609. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.126609. Epub 2020 
Mar 13.

Amylose and amylopectin functionality during storage of bread prepared from flour
of wheat containing unique starches.

Nivelle MA(1), Beghin AS(2), Vrinten P(3), Nakamura T(4), Delcour JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Food Chemistry and Biochemistry and Leuven Food Science and
Nutrition Research Centre (LFoRCe), KU Leuven, Kasteelpark Arenberg 20, B-3001
Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: mieke.nivelle@kuleuven.be.
(2)Laboratory of Food Chemistry and Biochemistry and Leuven Food Science and
Nutrition Research Centre (LFoRCe), KU Leuven, Kasteelpark Arenberg 20, B-3001
Leuven, Belgium.
(3)Bioriginal Food & Science Corporation, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7J 0R1,
Canada.
(4)Tohoku Agricultural Research Centre NARO, Morioka, Iwate 020-0198, Japan.
Electronic address: tnaka@affrc.go.jp.

Bread crumb firming is largely determined by the properties of gluten and starch,
and the transformations they undergo during bread making and storage. Amylose
(AM) and amylopectin (AP) functionality in fresh and stored bread was
investigated with NMR relaxometry. Bread was prepared from flours containing
normal and atypical starches, e.g., flour from wheat line 5-5, with or without
the inclusion of Bacillus stearothermophilus α-amylase. Initial crumb firmness
increased with higher levels of AM or shorter AM chains. Both less extended AM
and gluten networks and too rigid AM networks led to low crumb resilience. AP
retrogradation during storage increased when crumb contained more AP or longer AP
branch chains. Shorter AP branch chains, which were present at higher levels in
5-5 than in regular bread, were less prone to retrogradation, thereby limiting
gluten network dehydration due to gluten to starch moisture migration.
Correspondingly, crumb firming in 5-5 bread was restricted.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.126609 
PMID: 32222658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

