
1. ACS Omega. 2020 Jun 8;5(24):14523-14534. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.0c01210.
eCollection 2020 Jun 23.

Structure and Dynamics of a Thermostable Alcohol Dehydrogenase from the Antarctic
Psychrophile Moraxella sp. TAE123.

Petratos K(1), Gessmann R(1), Daskalakis V(2), Papadovasilaki M(1), Papanikolau
Y(1), Tsigos I(1), Bouriotis V(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Foundation for Research and 
Technology-Hellas, 70013 Heraklion, Greece.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Cyprus University of Technology, 3603
Limassol, Cyprus.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Crete, 70013 Heraklion, Greece.

The structure of a recombinant (His-tagged at C-terminus) alcohol dehydrogenase
(MoADH) from the cold-adapted bacterium Moraxella sp. TAE123 has been refined
with X-ray diffraction data extending to 1.9 Å resolution. The enzyme assumes a
homo-tetrameric structure. Each subunit comprises two distinct structural
domains: the catalytic domain (residues 1-150 and 288-340/345) and the
nucleotide-binding domain (residues 151-287). There are two Zn2+ ions in each
protein subunit. Two additional zinc ions have been found in the crystal
structure between symmetry-related subunits. The structure has been compared with
those of homologous enzymes from Geobacillus stearothermophilus (GsADH),
Escherichia coli (EcADH), and Thermus sp. ATN1 (ThADH) that thrive in
environments of diverse temperatures. Unexpectedly, MoADH has been found active
from 10 to at least 53 °C and unfolds at 89 °C according to circular dichroism
spectropolarimetry data. MoADH with substrate ethanol exhibits a small value of
activation enthalpy ΔH ‡ of 30 kJ mol-1. Molecular dynamics simulations for
single subunits of the closely homologous enzymes MoADH and GsADH performed at
280, 310, and 340 K showed enhanced wide-ranging mobility of MoADH at high
temperatures and generally lower but more distinct and localized mobility for
GsADH. Principal component analysis of the fluctuations of both ADHs resulted in 
a prominent open-close transition of the structural domains mainly at 280 K for
MoADH and 340 K for GsADH. In conclusion, MoADH is a very thermostable,
cold-adapted enzyme and the small value of activation enthalpy allows the enzyme 
to function adequately at low temperatures.

Copyright © 2020 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.0c01210 
PMCID: PMC7315583
PMID: 32596590 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interest.

