
1. Polymers (Basel). 2020 Jul 15;12(7). pii: E1570. doi: 10.3390/polym12071570.

Microbial Barrier Properties of Cotton Fabric-Influence of Weave Architecture.

Rogina-Car B(1), Kovačević S(2), Schwarz I(2), Dimitrovski K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clothing Technology, Faculty of Textile Technology, University
of Zagreb, Prilaz Baruna Filipovića 28a, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Department of Textile Design and Management, Faculty of Textile Technology,
University of Zagreb, Prilaz Baruna Filipovića 28a, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia.
(3)Faculty of Natural Sciences and Engineering, University of Ljubljana,
Aškerčeva 12, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.

The subject of the paper focuses on the effect of weave architecture on microbial
barrier properties of woven fabrics or more precisely on identifying crucial
elements of weave architecture that dominantly influence bacteria penetration in 
dry condition. For that purpose, 12 samples of cotton fabrics were woven and
examined. In their structure, all samples had the same yarns (36 tex) in warp and
weft, same densities of warp (24 yarns/cm), two weft densities (24 and 20
yarns/cm) and six different basic weave structures. Microbial barrier
permeability was determined according to a previously developed test method in
cooperation with University Hospital Center Zagreb. Bacterial endospores of
apathogenic species of the genus Bacillus: Geobacillus stearothermophilus and
Bacillus atrophaeus were used. The effect of weave pattern on microbial barrier
properties was significant. Weave patterns, decisively determined the number of
influencing pores and its sizes in woven fabrics, as well as the yarn floating
which jointly almost perfectly correlated with bacteria penetration through the
woven fabric. Multiple linear regression of pore numbers and floating threads
produced equations which correspond in 99% to the measuring results for densities
24/24 and 24/20, and more than 98% considering both densities of the set. Among
compared weave patterns, satin weave had significantly lower permeability of
microorganisms (six-seven times) than basket weave (the highest), for both
densities.

DOI: 10.3390/polym12071570 
PMCID: PMC7407755
PMID: 32679852 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

