
1. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Apr 14;17(8). pii: E2678. doi:
10.3390/ijerph17082678.

Identification of a New Heavy-Metal-Resistant Strain of Geobacillus
stearothermophilus Isolated from a Hydrothermally Active Volcanic Area in
Southern Italy.

Puopolo R(1), Gallo G(1), Mormone A(2), Limauro D(1), Contursi P(1), Piochi M(2),
Bartolucci S(1), Fiorentino G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia, Universit√† Degli Studi di Napoli Federico II, 80139 
Napoli, Italy.
(2)Istituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia, Sezione Osservatorio
Vesuviano, 80125 Napoli, Italy.

Microorganisms thriving in hot springs and hydrothermally active volcanic areas
are dynamically involved in heavy-metal biogeochemical cycles; they have
developed peculiar resistance systems to cope with such metals which nowadays can
be considered among the most permanent and toxic pollutants for humans and the
environment. For this reason, their exploitation is functional to unravel
mechanisms of toxic-metal detoxification and to address bioremediation of
heavy-metal pollution with eco-sustainable approaches. In this work, we isolated 
a novel strain of the thermophilic bacterium Geobacillus stearothermophilus from 
the solfataric mud pool in Pisciarelli, a well-known hydrothermally active zone
of the Campi Flegrei volcano located near Naples in Italy, and characterized it
by ribotyping, 16S rRNA sequencing and mass spectrometry analyses. The minimal
inhibitory concentration (MIC) toward several heavy-metal ions indicated that the
novel G. stearothermophilus isolate is particularly resistant to some of them.
Functional and morphological analyses suggest that it is endowed with metal
resistance systems for arsenic and cadmium detoxification.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17082678 
PMCID: PMC7215868
PMID: 32295125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

