
1. Curr Res Food Sci. 2020 Mar 25;3:82-91. doi: 10.1016/j.crfs.2020.03.005.
eCollection 2020 Nov.

Comparison of pulsed light inactivation kinetics and modeling of Escherichia coli
(ATCC-29055), Clostridium sporogenes (ATCC-7955) and Geobacillus
stearothermophilus (ATCC-10149).

John D(1), Ramaswamy HS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Agricultural Chemistry, McGill University
21,111 Lakeshore, Ste. Anne-de-Bellevue, QC H9X 3V9, Canada.

Pulsed light (PL) inactivation kinetics of Escherichia coli K-12, Clostridium
sporogenes and Geobacillus stearothermophilus were evaluated under different
treatment conditions. The PL system was factory set to operate at three pulses
per second with a pulse width of 360 μs exposing samples placed on one of the 9
trays on a rack. Two PL parameters were evaluated in the study: number of pulses 
(a time factor) and the tray position (a spatial distance factor) both
influencing the amount of light energy absorbed. As expected, the level of
microbial inactivation increased with an increase in the number of pulses (from 1
to 15) and decreased with an increase in the Spatial distance (Tray # 1 to 9)
away from the light source. Both the number of pulses and spatial distance as
well as their interactions were found to have a significant effect (P < 0.05) on 
the extent of microbial inactivation. Vegetative cells of E. coli were most
sensitive to PL treatment with a maximum 5 logarithmic reductions on Tray 1 after
a 12-pulse treatment (4 s). G. stearothermophilus was more resistant to PL than
C. sporogenes. Overall, the PL treatments (12-15 pulses) achieved a minimum four 
logarithmic reductions in the populations of all three microorganisms on the top 
tray at doses still below 12 J/cm2, the FDA-approved limit.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crfs.2020.03.005 
PMCID: PMC7473348
PMID: 32914124 

