
1. Foods. 2020 Sep 23;9(10). pii: E1342. doi: 10.3390/foods9101342.

Development of Bacterial Spore Pouches as a Tool to Evaluate the Sterilization
Efficiency-A Case Study with Microwave Sterilization Using Clostridium sporogenes
and Geobacillus stearothermophilus.

Soni A(1), Smith J(2), Archer R(2), Gardner A(1), Tong K(2), Brightwell G(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Food Assurance, AgResearch, Palmerston North 4410, New Zealand.
(2)School of Food & Advanced Technology, Massey University, Palmerston North
4410, New Zealand.
(3)New Zealand Food Safety Science Research Centre, Palmerston North 4410, New
Zealand.

In this study, novel spore pouches were developed using mashed potato as a food
model inoculated with either Geobacillus stearothermophilus or Clostridium
sporogenes spores. These spore pouches were used to evaluate the sterilization
efficiency of Coaxially induced microwave pasteurization and sterilization
(CiMPAS) as a case study. CiMPAS technology combines microwave energy (915 MHz)
along with hot water immersion to sterilize food in polymeric packages. The spore
pouches were placed at pre-determined specific locations, especially cold spots
in each food tray before being processed using two regimes (R-121 and R-65),
which consisted of 121 °C and 65 °C at 12 and 22 kW, respectively, followed by
recovery and enumeration of the surviving spores. To identify cold spots or the
location for inoculation, mashed potato was spiked with Maillard precursors and
processed through CiMPAS, followed by measurement of lightness values
(*L-values). Inactivation equivalent to of 1-2 Log CFU/g and >6 Log CFU/g for
Geobacillus stearothermophilus and Clostridium sporogenes spores, respectively
was obtained on the cold spots using R-121, which comprised of a total processing
time of 64.2 min. Whereas, inactivation of <1 and 2-3 Log CFU/g for G.
stearothermophilus and C. sporogenes spores, respectively on the cold spots was
obtained using R-65 (total processing time of 68.3 min), whereas inactivation of 
1-3 Log CFU/g of C. sporogenes spores was obtained on the sides of the tray. The 
results were reproducible across three processing replicates for each regime and 
inactivation at the specific locations were clearly distinguishable. The study
indicated a strong potential to use spore pouches as a tool for validation
studies of microwave-induced sterilization.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9101342 
PMID: 32977443 

