
1. Nucleic Acids Res. 2020 Aug 20;48(14):7991-8005. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkaa562.

Bulk and single-molecule analysis of a bacterial DNA2-like helicase-nuclease
reveals a single-stranded DNA looping motor.

Wilkinson OJ(1), Carrasco C(2), Aicart-Ramos C(2), Moreno-Herrero F(2),
Dillingham MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biochemistry, Biomedical Sciences Building, University of Bristol,
University Walk, Bristol BS8 1TD, UK.
(2)Department of Macromolecular Structures, Centro Nacional de Biotecnología,
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, 28049 Cantoblanco, Madrid,
Spain.

DNA2 is an essential enzyme involved in DNA replication and repair in eukaryotes.
In a search for homologues of this protein, we identified and characterised
Geobacillus stearothermophilus Bad, a bacterial DNA helicase-nuclease with
similarity to human DNA2. We show that Bad contains an Fe-S cluster and identify 
four cysteine residues that are likely to co-ordinate the cluster by analogy to
DNA2. The purified enzyme specifically recognises ss-dsDNA junctions and
possesses ssDNA-dependent ATPase, ssDNA binding, ssDNA endonuclease, 5' to 3'
ssDNA translocase and 5' to 3' helicase activity. Single molecule analysis
reveals that Bad is a processive DNA motor capable of moving along DNA for
distances of >4 kb at a rate of ∼200 bp per second at room temperature.
Interestingly, as reported for the homologous human and yeast DNA2 proteins, the 
DNA unwinding activity of Bad is cryptic and can be unmasked by inactivating the 
intrinsic nuclease activity. Strikingly, our experiments show that the enzyme
loops DNA while translocating, which is an emerging feature of processive DNA
unwinding enzymes. The bacterial Bad enzymes will provide an excellent model
system for understanding the biochemical properties of DNA2-like
helicase-nucleases and DNA looping motor proteins in general.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkaa562 
PMCID: PMC7430649
PMID: 32621607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

