
1. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2020 Aug 15;689:108429. doi: 10.1016/j.abb.2020.108429.
Epub 2020 May 30.

Biosynthesis of desferrioxamine siderophores initiated by decarboxylases: A
functional investigation of two lysine/ornithine-decarboxylases from Gordonia
rubripertincta CWB2 and Pimelobacter simplex 3E.

Hofmann M(1), Martin Del Campo JS(2), Sobrado P(3), Tischler D(4).

Author information: 
(1)Environmental Microbiology, Institute of Biosciences, TU Bergakademie
Freiberg, Leipziger Str. 29, 09599, Freiberg, Germany. Electronic address:
marika.hofmann90@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Center Drug Discovery, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, 
USA.
(4)Environmental Microbiology, Institute of Biosciences, TU Bergakademie
Freiberg, Leipziger Str. 29, 09599, Freiberg, Germany; Microbial Biotechnology,
Ruhr-Universität Bochum, Universitätsstr. 150, 44780, Bochum, Germany. Electronic
address: dirk.tischler@rub.de.

Erratum in
    Arch Biochem Biophys. 2020 Sep 11;693:108573.

Lysine is a precursor for desferrioxamine siderophore biosynthesis. The pathway
is often initiated by lysine decarboxylases. However, little is known about those
enzymes from Actinobacteria which represents a diverse class of desferrioxamine
producers. In this study we focused on the genes grdesA form Gordonia
rubripertincta CWB2 and psdesA from Pimelobacter simplex VkMAC-2033D that encode 
decarboxylases presumed to be involved in the synthesis of desferrioxamine
siderophores. The corresponding proteins GrDesA and PsDesA, were heterologously
produced in Escherichia coli and purified. PsDesA was isolated bound to the
cofactor pyridoxal 5-phosphate and GrDesA was purified in its apo form. PsDesA
showed a moderate substrate preference for lysine (Km = 0.17 mM, kcat = 0.26 s-1)
compared to ornithine (Km = 0.13 mM, kcat = 0.14 s-1), while GrDesA exhibited
specificity for lysine (Km = 0.13 mM, kcat = 1.2 s-1) compared to ornithine
(Km = 2.9 mM, kcat = 0.18 s-1). The maximum decarboxylase activity of PsDesA was 
achieved at pH 7.5 at 35 °C, although PsDesA was stable up to 40°, its relative
activity decreased significantly at 50 °C. The temperature optimum (40 °C) and
thermostability of GrDesA were likewise, but it exhibited maximum activity at pH 
range 8.0-8.5, and sharply decreased outside of this range. The expression and
characterization of these two decarboxylases provides insight into the
biosynthetic pathway of desferrioxamines from G.rubripertincta and P. simplex and
supports the functional annotation of related pathways.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.abb.2020.108429 
PMID: 32479762 

