
1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2020 Feb 21;64(3). pii: e01949-19. doi:
10.1128/AAC.01949-19. Print 2020 Feb 21.

Efficacy of Delafloxacin versus Moxifloxacin against Bacterial Respiratory
Pathogens in Adults with Community-Acquired Bacterial Pneumonia (CABP):
Microbiology Results from the Delafloxacin Phase 3 CABP Trial.

McCurdy S(1), Keedy K(2), Lawrence L(2), Nenninger A(2), Sheets A(2), Quintas
M(2), Cammarata S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Melinta Therapeutics, Morristown, New Jersey, USA smccurdy@melinta.com.
(2)Melinta Therapeutics, Morristown, New Jersey, USA.

Delafloxacin is a novel fluoroquinolone with activity against Gram-positive,
Gram-negative, and atypical pathogens, including fluoroquinolone-nonsusceptible
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). The microbiological results
of a phase 3 clinical trial in adults with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP)
comparing delafloxacin (300 mg intravenously [i.v.] with the option to switch to 
450 mg orally every 12 h) to moxifloxacin (400 mg i.v. with the option to switch 
to 400 mg orally once a day [QD]) were determined. Patients from 4 continents,
predominately Europe but also South America and Asia, were enrolled. The
microbiological intent-to-treat (MITT) population included 520 patients, and
60.5% of these patients had a bacterial pathogen identified. Multiple diagnostic 
methods were employed, including culture, serology, PCR, and urinary antigen
tests. Based on baseline MIC90 values, delafloxacin exhibited at least 16-fold
greater activity than moxifloxacin for Gram-positive and fastidious Gram-negative
pathogens. Delafloxacin retained activity against resistant phenotypes found in
Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillin-, macrolide-, and multiple-drug resistant), 
Haemophilus species (β-lactamase producing and macrolide nonsusceptible), and S. 
aureus (MRSA and fluoroquinolone-nonsusceptible methicillin-susceptible S. aureus
[MSSA]). The microbiological success rates were 92.7% for S. pneumoniae (87.5%
for penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae [PRSP]), 92.6% for S. aureus (100% for
MRSA), 100% for Escherichia coli, 82.4% for Klebsiella pneumoniae, 100% for
Klebsiella oxytoca, 100% for Moraxella catarrhalis, 91.7% for Haemophilus
influenzae, 88.6% for Haemophilus parainfluenzae, 96.7% for Mycoplasma
pneumoniae, 93.1% for Legionella pneumophila, and 100% for Chlamydia pneumoniae
There was little correlation between MICs and outcomes, with a high proportion of
favorable outcomes observed across all delafloxacin baseline MIC values.
Delafloxacin may be considered a treatment option as monotherapy for CAP in
adults, where broad-spectrum coverage including MRSA activity is desirable.

Copyright © 2020 McCurdy et al.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01949-19 
PMCID: PMC7038307
PMID: 31844013 

