
1. Expert Opin Ther Pat. 2020 Sep 24. doi: 10.1080/13543776.2020.1828864. [Epub
ahead of print]

Patent evaluation of US2019338018 (A1) 2019-11-07 (ANTIBODY FRAGMENTS FOR THE
TREATMENT OF BIOFILM-RELATED DISORDERS).

Cacciatore I(1), Marinelli L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University "G. d'Annunzio" of Chieti-Pescara , 66100
Chieti Scalo, Chieti, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: To date, microbial infections are also difficult to eradicate due
to the increasing capability of bacteria to form biofilm. In the era of
antibiotic resistance, antibody-based approaches represent great promise in
curing infective pathogens. The authors of US2019338018 patent propose a method
for the treatment of biofilm-related disorders by using specific antibody
fragments.
AREAS COVERED: The US2019338018 patent reports antibody fragments, pharmaceutical
composition that contains it, and their application for the treatment of
biofilm-linked disorders. Proof concept and preclinical results show that mAb
mIhfB4NTHI Fab caused robust eradication of the biofilm in the middle ear lumen
of chinchillas affected by Hemophilus influenzae infection.
EXPERT OPINION: Fab fragments of the US2019338018 patent are new in a general
concept to treat bacterial biofilms and biofilm-linked disorders. However,
pre-clinical data are only shown for the treatment with Fab fragments of
infections caused by H. influenzae in the middle ear of chinchillas. There are no
clinical trials that demonstrate that the treatment with Fab fragments may induce
a disruption of biofilm produced by H. influenzae or other pathogens and an
anti-inflammatory response in infected patients.

DOI: 10.1080/13543776.2020.1828864 
PMID: 32970473 

