
1. Microb Genom. 2020 Jan;6(1). doi: 10.1099/mgen.0.000303.

Comparative genomic analysis identifies X-factor (haemin)-independent Haemophilus
haemolyticus: a formal re-classification of 'Haemophilus intermedius'.

Harris TM(1), Price EP(2)(1), Sarovich DS(2)(1), NÃ¸rskov-Lauritsen N(3),
Beissbarth J(1), Chang AB(4)(1), Smith-Vaughan HC(5)(1).

Author information: 
(1)Child Health Division, Menzies School of Health Research, Darwin, NT,
Australia.
(2)GeneCology Research Centre, University of the Sunshine Coast, Sippy Downs,
QLD, Australia.
(3)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus,
Denmark.
(4)Department of Respiratory and Sleep Medicine, Queensland Children's Hospital, 
Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(5)School of Medicine, Griffith University, Gold Coast, QLD, Australia.

The heterogeneous and highly recombinogenic genus Haemophilus comprises several
species, some of which are pathogenic to humans. All share an absolute
requirement for blood-derived factors during growth. Certain species, such as the
pathogen Haemophilus influenzae and the commensal Haemophilus haemolyticus, are
thought to require both haemin (X-factor) and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide
(NAD, V-factor), whereas others, such as the informally classified 'Haemophilus
intermedius subsp. intermedius', and Haemophilus parainfluenzae, only require
V-factor. These differing growth requirements are commonly used for species
differentiation, although a number of studies are now revealing issues with this 
approach. Here, we perform large-scale phylogenomics of 240 Haemophilus spp.
genomes, including five 'H. intermedius' genomes generated in the current study, 
to reveal that strains of the 'H. intermedius' group are in fact
haemin-independent H. haemolyticus (hiHh). Closer examination of these hiHh
strains revealed that they encode an intact haemin biosynthesis pathway, unlike
haemin-dependent H. haemolyticus and H. influenzae, which lack most haemin
biosynthesis genes. Our results suggest that the common ancestor of modern-day H.
haemolyticus and H. influenzae lost key haemin biosynthesis loci, likely as a
consequence of specialized adaptation to otorhinolaryngeal and respiratory niches
during their divergence from H. parainfluenzae. Genetic similarity analysis
demonstrated that the haemin biosynthesis loci acquired in the hiHh lineage were 
likely laterally transferred from a H. parainfluenzae ancestor, and that this
event probably occurred only once in hiHh. This study further challenges the
validity of phenotypic methods for differentiating among Haemophilus species, and
highlights the need for whole-genome sequencing for accurate characterization of 
species within this taxonomically challenging genus.

DOI: 10.1099/mgen.0.000303 
PMCID: PMC7067038
PMID: 31860436 

