
1. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 Apr;39(4):703-710. doi:
10.1007/s10096-019-03774-x. Epub 2019 Dec 11.

Emergence of multidrug resistance among Haemophilus parainfluenzae from
respiratory and urogenital samples in Barcelona, Spain.

Sierra Y(1), González-Díaz A(1)(2), Tubau F(1)(2), Imaz A(3), Cubero M(1)(2),
Càmara J(1)(2), Ayats J(1), Martí S(4)(5), Ardanuy C(6)(7)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology Department, Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge, Feixa Llarga s/n,
L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, 08907, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Research Network for Respiratory Diseases (CIBERES), ISCIII, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Infectious Diseases Department, Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge-IDIBELL,
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Microbiology Department, Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge, Feixa Llarga s/n,
L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, 08907, Barcelona, Spain.
smartinm@bellvitgehospital.cat.
(5)Research Network for Respiratory Diseases (CIBERES), ISCIII, Madrid, Spain.
smartinm@bellvitgehospital.cat.
(6)Microbiology Department, Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge, Feixa Llarga s/n,
L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, 08907, Barcelona, Spain.
c.ardanuy@bellvitgehospital.cat.
(7)Research Network for Respiratory Diseases (CIBERES), ISCIII, Madrid, Spain.
c.ardanuy@bellvitgehospital.cat.
(8)Deptartment of Pathology and Experimental Therapeutics, School of Medicine,
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. c.ardanuy@bellvitgehospital.cat.

Haemophilus parainfluenzae (HPAR) is a Gram-negative bacterium that can become an
opportunistic urogenital pathogen. Recently, multidrug resistant (MDR) strains
have emerged. We aim to analyse the epidemiology of HPAR at Hospital Universitari
de Bellvitge between 2013 and 2017 to determine its putative role in sexually
transmitted infections (STI). Strains were classified by sample origin, and
antimicrobial susceptibility was performed by disk-diffusion tested on
Mueller-Hinton Fastidious. MDR was defined as the resistance of the antimicrobial
to three or more antibiotic class. Molecular typing was performed by pulsed-field
gel electrophoresis (PFGE) after restriction with SmaI and Cfr9I. We classified
944 HPAR isolates as being of urogenital (n = 175; 18.5%), respiratory (n = 719; 
76.2%), or other (n = 50; 5.3%) origins. Among the urogenital isolates, 50
(28.6%) were MDR, which was significantly higher than that found in respiratory
samples (40/719; 5.6%; p < 0.01). The frequency of MDR increased progressively
among urogenital samples from 13.3% (2013) to 33.3% (2017) (r = 0.8; p = 0.035). 
The resistance rates for all 944 episodes were significantly higher for
cotrimoxazole (51.4%), tetracycline (46.3%), chloramphenicol (28.0%),
ciprofloxacin (21.1%), and ampicillin (20.6%). After PFGE, no clonal relationship
was found. Clinical charts were available for 40 symptomatic patients with MDR
HPAR infections presenting mostly urethritis (n = 26; 65.0%). In all cases,
symptoms were treated effectively with combination therapy. Furthermore, in 10 of
those patients with urethritis, MDR HPAR was the only potential pathogen to be
identified. The emergence of MDR HPAR is a matter of concern, and the detection
as a single pathogen highlights its putative role as cause of STI.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-019-03774-x 
PMID: 31828685 

