
1. Mol Microbiol. 2020 Feb;113(2):381-398. doi: 10.1111/mmi.14426. Epub 2019 Dec 2.

A heme-binding protein produced by Haemophilus haemolyticus inhibits non-typeable
Haemophilus influenzae.

Latham RD(1), Torrado M(2), Atto B(3), Walshe JL(2), Wilson R(4), Guss JM(2),
Mackay JP(2), Tristram S(3), Gell DA(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Australia.
(2)School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney,
Australia.
(3)School of Health Sciences, University of Tasmania, Launceston, Australia.
(4)Central Science Laboratory, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Australia.

Commensal bacteria serve as an important line of defense against colonisation by 
opportunisitic pathogens, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly
explored. Here, we show that strains of a commensal bacterium, Haemophilus
haemolyticus, make hemophilin, a heme-binding protein that inhibits growth of the
opportunistic pathogen, non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi) in culture. We
purified the NTHi-inhibitory protein from H. haemolyticus and identified the
hemophilin gene using proteomics and a gene knockout. An x-ray crystal structure 
of recombinant hemophilin shows that the protein does not belong to any of the
known heme-binding protein folds, suggesting that it evolved independently.
Biochemical characterisation shows that heme can be captured in the ferrous or
ferric state, and with a variety of small heme-ligands bound, suggesting that
hemophilin could function under a range of physiological conditions. Hemophilin
knockout bacteria show a limited capacity to utilise free heme for growth. Our
data suggest that hemophilin is a hemophore and that inhibition of NTHi occurs by
heme starvation, raising the possibility that competition from
hemophilin-producing H. haemolyticus could antagonise NTHi colonisation in the
respiratory tract.

Â© 2019 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mmi.14426 
PMID: 31742788 

