
1. Cureus. 2020 Aug 24;12(8):e9994. doi: 10.7759/cureus.9994.

Pneumococcal Meningitis Complicated by Subarachnoid Hemorrhage and Tonsillar
Herniation.

Vyas V(1), Kanagalingam G(1), Siddique Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine, State University of New York Upstate Medical University,
Syracuse, USA.
(2)Radiology, State University of New York Upstate Medical University, Syracuse, 
USA.

Bacterial meningitis is a fatal infectious disease with an annual incidence of
four to six cases per 100,000 adults. The most common pathogens associated with
this condition are Streptococcus pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitides, and
Hemophilus influenzae. Mortality rates range between 10 and 40% despite the
availability of highly effective antibiotic therapy, and severe neurological
damage affects 30-52% of survivors. The causes of death in patients with
pneumococcal meningitis are multifactorial and involve both neurological
complications such as cerebral edema, hydrocephalus, infarction, and septic sinus
or venous thrombosis and systemic complications such as septic shock,
disseminated intravascular coagulation, and acute respiratory distress syndrome. 
We present an unfortunate case of a 42-year-old woman with asplenia and sickle
cell disease, admitted for pneumococcal meningitis, who developed diffuse
cerebral edema leading to tonsillar herniation and aneurysmal subarachnoid
hemorrhage (SAH) with a fatal outcome. To the best of our knowledge, this is the 
only case ever reported of meningitis complicated by both SAH and brain
herniation.

Copyright © 2020, Vyas et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.9994 
PMCID: PMC7511066
PMID: 32983693 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

