
1. Nucleic Acids Res. 2020 Feb 20;48(3):1466-1478. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkz1195.

Structure of HhaI endonuclease with cognate DNA at an atomic resolution of 1.0 Å.

Horton JR(1), Yang J(1), Zhang X(1), Petronzio T(2), Fomenkov A(2), Wilson GG(2),
Roberts RJ(2), Cheng X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epigenetics & Molecular Carcinogenesis, The University of Texas 
MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(2)New England Biolabs, Inc., Ipswich, MA 01938, USA.

HhaI, a Type II restriction endonuclease, recognizes the symmetric sequence
5'-GCG↓C-3' in duplex DNA and cleaves ('↓') to produce fragments with 2-base,
3'-overhangs. We determined the structure of HhaI in complex with cognate DNA at 
an ultra-high atomic resolution of 1.0 Å. Most restriction enzymes act as dimers 
with two catalytic sites, and cleave the two strands of duplex DNA
simultaneously, in a single binding event. HhaI, in contrast, acts as a monomer
with only one catalytic site, and cleaves the DNA strands sequentially, one after
the other. HhaI comprises three domains, each consisting of a mixed five-stranded
β sheet with a defined function. The first domain contains the catalytic-site;
the second contains residues for sequence recognition; and the third contributes 
to non-specific DNA binding. The active-site belongs to the 'PD-D/EXK'
superfamily of nucleases and contains the motif SD-X11-EAK. The first two domains
are similar in structure to two other monomeric restriction enzymes, HinP1I
(G↓CGC) and MspI (C↓CGG), which produce fragments with 5'-overhangs. The third
domain, present only in HhaI, shifts the positions of the recognition residues
relative to the catalytic site enabling this enzyme to cleave the recognition
sequence at a different position. The structure of M.HhaI, the biological
methyltransferase partner of HhaI, was determined earlier. Together, these two
structures represent the first natural pair of restriction-modification enzymes
to be characterized in atomic detail.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkz1195 
PMCID: PMC7026639
PMID: 31879785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

