
1. J Microbiol Immunol Infect. 2020 May 11. pii: S1684-1182(20)30110-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jmii.2020.04.017. [Epub ahead of print]

In vitro susceptibility of ceftaroline against clinically important Gram-positive
cocci, Haemophilus species and Klebsiella pneumoniae in Taiwan: Results from the 
Antimicrobial Testing Leadership and Surveillance (ATLAS) in 2012-2018.

Jean SS(1), Lee WS(2), Ko WC(3), Hsueh PR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Emergency, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei
Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Emergency Medicine, Department 
of Emergency and Critical Care Medicine, Wan Fang Hospital, Taipei Medical
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, Wan Fang
Hospital, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Internal
Medicine, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical University,
Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Medicine, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University,
Tainan, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital,
National Taiwan University College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of
Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, National Taiwan
University College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address:
hsporen@ntu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Ceftaroline, with a unique activity against
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), was not launched in Taiwan
before 2019. The in vitro susceptibility data of ceftaroline against important
Taiwanese pathogens are lacking.
METHODS: The in vitro susceptibility of ceftaroline against important pathogens
collected from 2012 through 2018 were extracted from the Antimicrobial Testing
Leadership and Surveillance program. Broth microdilution method was used to
determine the minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) to ceftaroline against all
isolates.
RESULTS: During the study period, the in vitro data regarding isolates of S.
aureus (n = 2049), Staphylococcus epidermidis (n = 185), Streptococcus pneumoniae
(n = 334), Streptococcus pyogenes (n = 170), Haemophilus influenzae (n = 75),
Haemophilus parainfluenzae (n = 10) and Klebsiella pneumoniae (n = 680)
regardless of hospital sites of collection were analyzed. Among the S. aureus
isolates studied, 19.4% showed MICs of 1 mg/L to ceftaroline, and 4.4% showed
in vitro susceptible-dose dependent to ceftaroline (all MICs, 2 mg/L). Most of
other Gram-positive cocci, all H. influenzae and H. parainfluenzae isolates were 
susceptible to ceftaroline. By contrast, about one-third (35.9%) of K. pneumoniae
isolates, irrespective of infection sources, exhibited non-susceptibility to
ceftaroline (MIC range, 0.015-256 mg/L; MIC50 and MIC90 values, 0.12 and
256 mg/L, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: From the pharmacodynamic perspectives, the ceftaroline dosage of
600 mg as a 2-h intravenous infusion every 8 h is effective against all S. aureus
and other Gram-positive isolates regardless of acquisition sites in Taiwan.
Before ceftaroline is prescribed in treatment of the patient with Gram-negative
infection, a cautious evaluation about patient's healthcare-associated factor is 
warranted.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmii.2020.04.017 
PMID: 32451293 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest We declare no
conflicts of interest.

