
1. Environ Res. 2020 Oct;189:109913. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2020.109913. Epub 2020
Jul 12.

Exposure to welding fumes suppresses the activity of T-helper cells.

Knobloch J(1), Casjens S(2), Lehnert M(2), Yanik SD(3), Körber S(3), Lotz A(2),
Rupp J(4), Raulf M(2), Zschiesche W(2), Weiss T(2), Kronsbein J(3), Koch A(5),
Brüning T(2), Pesch B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Clinic III for Pneumology Allergology, Sleep-, and Respiratory
Medicine, Bergmannsheil University Hospital, Ruhr University Bochum;
Bürkle-de-la-Camp-Platz 1, 44789 Bochum, Germany. Electronic address:
juergen.knobloch@bergmannsheil.de.
(2)Institute for Prevention and Occupational Medicine of the German Social
Accident Insurance, Institute of the Ruhr University Bochum (IPA);
Bürkle-de-la-Camp-Platz 1, 44789 Bochum, Germany.
(3)Medical Clinic III for Pneumology Allergology, Sleep-, and Respiratory
Medicine, Bergmannsheil University Hospital, Ruhr University Bochum;
Bürkle-de-la-Camp-Platz 1, 44789 Bochum, Germany.
(4)Department of Infectious Diseases and Microbiology, University of Lübeck,
Ratzeburger Allee 160, 23538 Lübeck, Germany.
(5)Zürcher RehaZentren Davos, Klinikstrasse 6, 7272 Davos-Clavadel, Switzerland; 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University of Munich (LMU) and DZL (German Center of Lung
Science), 81377 Munich, Germany.

Welders have an increased susceptibility to airway infections with non-typeable
Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi), which implicates immune defects and might promote 
pneumonia and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). We hypothesized that 
welding-fume exposure suppresses Th1-lymphocyte activity. Non-effector CD4+
T-cells from blood of 45 welders (n = 23 gas metal arc welders, GMAW; n = 16
tungsten inert gas welders, TIG; n = 6 others) and 25 non-welders were ex vivo
activated towards Th1 via polyclonal T-cell receptor stimulation and IL-12 (first
activation step) and then stimulated with NTHi extract or lipopolysaccharide
(LPS) (second activation step). IFNγ and IL-2 were measured by ELISA. In the
first activation step, IFNγ was reduced in welders compared to non-welders and in
the GMAW welders with higher concentrations of respirable particles compared to
the lower exposed TIG welders. IFNγ was not influenced by tobacco smoking and
correlated negatively with welding-fume exposure, respirable manganese, and iron.
In the second activation step, NTHi and LPS induced additional IFNγ, which was
reduced in current smokers compared to never smokers in welders as well as in
non-welders. Analyzing both activation steps together, IFNγ production was lowest
in smoking welders and highest in never smoking non-welders. IL-2 was not
associated with any of these parameters. Welding-fume exposure might suppress
Th1-based immune responses due to effects of particulate matter, which mainly
consists of iron and manganese. For responses to NTHi this is strongest in
smoking welders because welding fume suppresses T-cell activation towards Th1 and
cigarette smoke suppresses the subsequent Th1-response to NTHi via LPS. Both
effects are independent from IL-2-regulated T-cell proliferation. This might
explain the increased susceptibility to infections and might promote COPD
development.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2020.109913 
PMID: 32980007 

