
1. J Clin Microbiol. 2019 Nov 22;57(12). pii: e01254-19. doi: 10.1128/JCM.01254-19. 
Print 2019 Dec.

Identification and Characterization of "Haemophilus quentini" Strains Causing
Invasive Disease in Ontario, Canada (2016 to 2018).

Kus JV(1)(2), Shuel M(3), Soares D(4), Hoang W(3), Law D(3), Tsang RSW(3).

Author information: 
(1)Public Health Ontario, Toronto, Ontario, Canada julianne.kus@oahpp.ca.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Public Health Agency of Canada, National Microbiology Laboratory, Winnipeg,
Manitoba, Canada.
(4)Public Health Ontario, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Haemophilus influenzae is a well-established human pathogen capable of causing a 
range of respiratory and invasive diseases. Since the 1970s, it has been observed
that a nontypeable cryptic genospecies of H. influenzae, most often biotype IV,
has been associated with the genitourinary tracts of females and with invasive
neonatal infections. This distinct genospecies has been provisionally named
"Haemophilus quentini" Here, we report seven cases of invasive H. quentini
disease in patients from Ontario, Canada, over a 2-year period. Significantly,
while most reports of invasive disease with H. quentini to date have been in
neonates, we observed five cases in adults (three in women of childbearing age
and two in seniors) as well as two in neonates. Identification of H. quentini is 
challenging and was not possible for frontline laboratories, requiring work at
the reference laboratory level. We describe in detail the biochemical results,
matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry
(MALDI-Tof MS) results, and PCR results with several targets, including the 16S
rRNA gene and multilocus sequence typing (MLST) genes, for the seven Ontario H.
quentini isolates and several controls. Our data, combined with those of other
publications, support the fact that H. quentini is distinct from H. influenzae
and Haemophilus haemolyticus This organism is recognized as a pathogen of
neonates, but we hypothesize that it may be underrecognized as an important
pathogen in adults as well, particularly pregnant women. By sharing the detailed 
descriptions of these isolates, we hope to enable other laboratories to better
identify H. quentini so that the true prevalence of this organism and disease can
be explored.

Â© Crown copyright 2019.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.01254-19 
PMCID: PMC6879273
PMID: 31578259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

