
1. Case Rep Oncol. 2020 Mar 25;13(1):314-320. doi: 10.1159/000505968. eCollection
2020 Jan-Apr.

Chronic and Severe Non-Lichenoid Oral Ulcers Induced by Nivolumab - Diagnostic
and Therapeutic Challenge: A Case Report.

Cardona AF(1)(2)(3), Ruiz-Patiño A(2)(3), Ricaurte L(2)(3), Zatarain-Barrón
ZL(4), Barrón F(4), Arrieta O(4).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical and Translational Oncology Group, Clinica del Country, Bogotá,
Colombia.
(2)Foundation for Clinical and Applied Cancer Research - FICMAC, Bogotá,
Colombia.
(3)Molecular Oncology and Biology Systems Research Group (Fox-G), Universidad El 
Bosque, Bogotá, Colombia.
(4)Thoracic Oncology Unit, National Cancer Institute (INCan), Mexico City,
Mexico.

Due to the widespread use of immune checkpoint inhibitors and the growing
research efforts in this area, immune-mediated toxicity is well recognized.
Nonetheless, few severe cases of oral or upper gastrointestinal tract mucosal
involvement have been documented. Early recognition and prompt treatment are key 
to the adequate management of these patients. We present a male 93-year-old
patient with an advanced head and neck tumor treated with nivolumab who developed
severe oral ulcers. After discontinuation of nivolumab, he received initial
steroid treatment without any significant improvement. Histopathologic analysis
of the lesions revealed a pattern similar to graft versus host disease.
Extrapolating the results of colchicine mouth washing in patients with active
oral ulcers and Behçet's disease, this strategy was implemented with concomitant 
metronomic cyclophosphamide, achieving complete ulcer resolution. Metagenomic
oral bacterial sequencing during instauration of the lesions and highest
extension revealed a significant decrease in microbiomic diversity and expansion 
of Haemophilus parainfluenzae similar to patients with active Behçet's disease.
In conclusion, oral ulcers associated with immune checkpoint inhibitors
correspond to a difficult-to-treat entity that could physiopathologically be
related to both graft versus host disease and Behçet's disease.

Copyright © 2020 by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000505968 
PMCID: PMC7154263
PMID: 32308598 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no relevant conflicts of
interest.

