
1. Vaccines (Basel). 2020 Sep 29;8(4). pii: E561. doi: 10.3390/vaccines8040561.

Measuring the Benefits of Mass Vaccination Programs in the United States.

Magno H(1), Golomb B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Independent Computer Scientist, Orange County, CA 92677, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, UC San Diego School of Medicine, La Jolla, CA 92093,
USA.

Since the late 1940s, mass vaccination programs in the USA have contributed to
the significantly reduced morbidity and mortality of infectious diseases. To
assist the evaluation of the benefits of mass vaccination programs, the number of
individuals who would have suffered death or permanent disability in the USA in
2014, had mass vaccination never been implemented, was estimated for measles,
mumps, rubella, tetanus, diphtheria, pertussis, polio, Haemophilus influenzae
type b (Hib), hepatitis B, varicella, and human papillomavirus (HPV). The
estimates accounted for mortality and morbidity trends observed for these
infections prior to mass vaccination and the impact of advances in standard of
living and health care. The estimates also considered populations with and
without known factors leading to an elevated risk of permanent injury from
infection. Mass vaccination prevented an estimated 20 million infections and
12,000 deaths and permanent disabilities in 2014, including 10,800 deaths and
permanent disabilities in persons at elevated risk. Though 9000 of the estimated 
prevented deaths were from liver cirrhosis and cancer, mass vaccination programs 
have not, at this point, shown empirical impacts on the prevalence of those
conditions. Future studies can refine these estimates, assess the impact of
adjusting estimation assumptions, and consider additional risk factors that lead 
to heightened risk of permanent harm from infection.

DOI: 10.3390/vaccines8040561 
PMID: 33003480 

