
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 May;202(4):785-805. doi: 10.1007/s00203-019-01790-1. Epub
2019 Dec 12.

Alterations of salivary microbial community associated with oropharyngeal and
hypopharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma patients.

Panda M(1), Rai AK(2), Rahman T(2), Das A(2), Das R(2), Sarma A(2), Kataki AC(2),
Chattopadhyay I(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences, School of Life Sciences, Central University of
Tamil Nadu, Thiruvarur, 610005, India.
(2)Dr. B. Borooah Cancer Institute, A. K. Azad Road, Gopinath Nagar, Guwahati,
Assam, 781016, India.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, School of Life Sciences, Central University of
Tamil Nadu, Thiruvarur, 610005, India. indranil@cutn.ac.in.

The highest number (35.1% of global incident cases) of new oropharyngeal (OP) and
hypopharyngeal (HP) cancer cases was reported in South-Central Asia. The highest 
incidence of HP cancer in India was reported in East Khasi Hills District of
Meghalaya, Aizawl District of Mizoram, and Kamrup Urban District of Assam. HP and
OP cancer showed the highest mortality rate, worst prognoses and the highest rate
of nodal metastases and distant metastases. Thus, research is required to detect 
specific biomarkers for early prevention and diagnosis for these cancers. Oral
microbiome signatures in saliva are considered as a potential diagnostic
biomarker for OP and HP cancer. Bacterial profile alterations in OP and HP cancer
have not been reported in India population, to establish the association of oral 
bacteria in the progression of OP and HP cancer; we studied bacterial communities
in saliva of eight OP and seven HP cancer patients as compared to healthy
controls using 16S rRNA V3-V4 region sequencing. The higher abundance of
Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Haemophilus influenzae and Prevotella copri and lower
abundance of Rothia mucilaginosa, Aggregatibacter segnis, Veillonella dispar,
Prevotella nanceiensis, Rothia aeria, Capnocytophaga ochracea, Neisseria
bacilliformis, Prevotella nigrescens and Selenomonas noxia in saliva of OP and HP
cancer patients may be considered as a non-invasive diagnostic biomarker for OP
and HP cancer patients. Streptococcus anginosus may be considered as a
non-invasive diagnostic biomarker for OP cancer patients only. Therefore,
evaluation of salivary microbial biomarkers may be informative to understand the 
pathobiology and carcinogenesis of OP and HP cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-019-01790-1 
PMID: 31832691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

