
1. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Feb 18;17(4). pii: E1312. doi:
10.3390/ijerph17041312.

Molecular Diversity of ESBL-Producing Escherichia coli from Foods of Animal
Origin and Human Patients.

Alegría Á(1), Arias-Temprano M(2), Fernández-Natal I(2), Rodríguez-Calleja JM(1),
García-López ML(1), Santos JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Hygiene and Food Technology, Veterinary Faculty,
Universidad de León, ES24071 León, Spain.
(2)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Complejo Asistencial Universitario de
León (CAULE), ES24071 León, Spain.

Dissemination of enterobacteria that produce extended spectrum β-lactamases
(ESBL) throughout the food chain has become an important health concern. This
work aimed to evaluate the occurrence of ESBL-producing bacteria in foods of
animal origin and to investigate the similarities between food and human
isolates. The presence of beta-lactam-resistant Enterobacteriaceae was analyzed
in 108 food samples, isolating 10 strains of Escherichia coli, one strain of
Citrobacter freundi, and one of Hafnia alvei. E. coli isolates were compared to a
group of 15 strains isolated from human patients by antibiotic susceptibility
testing, characterization of ESBL genes (blaTEM, blaCTX,), multilocus sequence
typing (MLST) and pulse-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). Nineteen (14 clinical
and five food) isolates carried blaCTX, 14 (six clinical and eight food) carried 
blaTEM, and three (one clinical and two food) carried blaSHV gen. MLST analysis
revealed the prevalence of ST131 among the clinical strains, which grouped
together in a PFGE cluster. Food isolates showed higher diversity and two of them
(ST57) grouped with clinical strains, whereas another two belonged to clonal
groups with virulence potential (ST59). In conclusion, the results showed that
foods of animal origin must be regarded as a reservoir of ESBL-producing bacteria
of clinical relevance, which might spread through the food chain.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17041312 
PMCID: PMC7068493
PMID: 32085569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

