
1. Saudi J Biol Sci. 2020 May;27(5):1222-1227. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2020.02.008. Epub
2020 Feb 19.

Bacterium Hafnia alvei secretes l-methioninase enzyme: Optimization of the enzyme
secretion conditions.

Alshehri WA(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Jeddah, College of Science, Department of Biology, Jeddah, Saudi
Arabia.

I isolated bacteria from blue cheese in order to find bacterial strains secreting
l-methioninase enzyme, and optimized the conditions for the most efficient enzyme
secretion. The efficient isolate, identified according to the 16S rRNA gene
sequence analysis, was Hafnia alvei belonging to Enterobacteriaceae. I confirmed 
that the H. alvei strain harbored the methionase gene, mdeA (1194 bp). The
environmental (pH, temperature) and nutritional (carbon and nitrogen sources and 
Mg concentration) factors influencing the l-methioninase production of H. alvei
were optimized. The highest yield of l-methioninase enzyme was reached after 48 h
of incubation when the acidity of the growing medium was adjusted to pH 7.5 and
the temperature was 35 °C. The following concentrations of the supplements
increased the l-methioninase yield in the medium: galactose (2.0 g L-1), MgSO4
(0.25 g L-1), l-methionine as an inducer (2.0 g L-1), and l-asparagine as an
additional N source (1.5 g L-1). I introduce a bacterial strain of H. alvei that 
is previously unreported to secrete l-methioninase enzyme and show that a carbon 
source is a mandatory supplement whereas l-methionine is not a mandatory
supplement for l-methioninase enzyme production of H. alvei.

© 2020 The Author.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2020.02.008 
PMCID: PMC7182987
PMID: 32346328 

Conflict of interest statement: The author declare that she has no known
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.

