
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Oct;91:103541. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103541. Epub 2020 May 
3.

The effect of protective cultures on Staphylococcus aureus growth and enterotoxin
production.

Aljasir SF(1), D'Amico DJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Science, University of Connecticut, U-4163, Agricultural 
Biotechnology Laboratory, 1390 Storrs Road, Storrs, Connecticut 06269, USA.
Electronic address: s.aljasir@qu.edu.sa.
(2)Department of Animal Science, University of Connecticut, U-4163, Agricultural 
Biotechnology Laboratory, 1390 Storrs Road, Storrs, Connecticut 06269, USA.
Electronic address: ddamico@uconn.edu.

Staphylococcus aureus is the causative agent of staphylococcal food poisoning and
is a common contaminant in milk. Despite efforts to control S. aureus, recalls
and outbreaks continue to occur, highlighting the need for additional
interventions. This study determined the potential for protective cultures (PC)
that are commercially available to producers to control S. aureus growth in raw
milk and attenuate virulence by impeding staphylococcal enterotoxin (SE)
production in raw milk and laboratory medium. Cultures of Hafnia alvei and
Lactococcus lactis effectively inhibited S. aureus growth in raw milk to counts
~5 log CFU/mL lower than control when cocultured following a cheesemaking time
and temperature profile; two cultures of Lactobacillus plantarum inhibited growth
to ~1.5 log CFU/mL less than control. Cocultures of S. aureus with Lc. lactis, H.
alvei and Lb. plantarum in raw milk reduced SE levels by 24.9%, 62.4%, and 76%,
respectively. Lc. lactis also decreased SE production in raw milk in the absence 
of PC-mediated growth inhibition. Significant reductions in SE production in the 
absence of pathogen growth inhibition were also achieved in laboratory medium.
Together, these results demonstrate the potential for PCs to inhibit S. aureus
growth and impede SE production in the absence of growth inhibition.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103541 
PMID: 32539968 

