
1. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2019 Oct 9;7:239. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2019.00239.
eCollection 2019.

Investigation of the Antibacterial Activity and in vivo Cytotoxicity of Biogenic 
Silver Nanoparticles as Potent Therapeutics.

Hossain MM(1), Polash SA(1), Takikawa M(2), Shubhra RD(1), Saha T(3), Islam Z(1),
Hossain S(1), Hasan MA(4), Takeoka S(2), Sarker SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Jahangirnagar University,
Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(2)Department of Advanced Science and Engineering, Graduate School of Advanced
Science and Engineering, Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Textile Engineering, Dhaka University of Engineering and
Technology, Gazipur, Bangladesh.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Jahangirnagar University,
Dhaka, Bangladesh.

Biogenic nanoparticles are the smartest weapons to deal with the
multidrug-resistant "superbugs" because of their broad-spectrum antibacterial
propensity as well as excellent biocompatibility. The aqueous biogenic silver
nanoparticles (Aq-bAgNPs) and ethanolic biogenic silver nanoparticles (Et-bAgNPs)
were synthesized using aqueous and ethanolic extracts of Andrographis paniculata 
stem, respectively, as reducing agents. Electron microscopic images confirmed the
synthesis of almost spherical shaped biogenic silver nanoparticles (bAgNPs). The 
zeta potentials of the nanoparticles were negative and were -22 and -26 mV for
Aq-bAgNPs and Et-bAgNPs, respectively. The antibacterial activity of bAgNPs was
investigated against seven pathogenic (i.e., enteropathogenic Escherichia coli,
Salmonella typhi, Staphylococcus aureus, Vibrio cholerae, Enterococcus faecalis, 
Hafnia alvei, Acinetobacter baumannii) and three nonpathogenic (i.e., E. coli
DH5α, E. coli K12, and Bacillus subtilis) bacteria at different time points
(i.e., 12, 16, 20, and 24 h) in a dose-dependent manner (i.e., 20, 40, and 60 μg)
through broth dilution assay, disk diffusion assay, CellToxTM Green uptake assay,
and trypan blue dye exclusion assay. The lowest minimum inhibitory concentration 
value for both the bAgNPs was 0.125 μg. Et-bAgNPs showed the highest
antibacterial activity against S. aureus at 60 μg after 16 h and the diameter of 
inhibited zone was 28 mm. Lipid peroxidation assay using all the bacterial
strains revealed the formation of malondialdehyde-thiobarbituric acid adduct due 
to the oxidation of cell membrane fatty acids by bAgNPs. The bAgNPs showed
excellent hemocompatibility against human as well as rat red blood cells.
Furthermore, there was no significant toxicity observed when the levels of rat
serum ALT, AST, γ-GT (i.e., liver function biomarkers), and creatinine (i.e.,
kidney function biomarker) were determined.

Copyright © 2019 Hossain, Polash, Takikawa, Shubhra, Saha, Islam, Hossain, Hasan,
Takeoka and Sarker.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2019.00239 
PMCID: PMC6794407
PMID: 31649922 

