
1. J Biosci Bioeng. 2020 Aug;130(2):195-199. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2020.03.011. Epub
2020 May 4.

Exploring the additive bio-agent impacts upon ectoine production by Halomonas
salina DSM5928T using corn steep liquor and soybean hydrolysate as nutrient
supplement.

Chen PW(1), Cui ZY(1), Ng HS(2), Chi-Wei Lan J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Biorefinery and Bioprocess Engineering Laboratory, Department of Chemical
Engineering and Materials Science, Yuan Ze University, Taoyuan 32003, Taiwan.
(2)Faculty of Applied Sciences, UCSI University, UCSI Heights, Cheras, Kuala
Lumpur 56000, Malaysia.
(3)Biorefinery and Bioprocess Engineering Laboratory, Department of Chemical
Engineering and Materials Science, Yuan Ze University, Taoyuan 32003, Taiwan;
Graduate School of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Yuan Ze University, Taoyuan 
32003, Taiwan. Electronic address: lanchiwei@saturn.yzu.edu.tw.

Ectoine production using inexpensive and renewable biomass resources has
attracted great interest among the researchers due to the low yields of ectoine
in current fermentation approaches that complicate the large-scale production of 
ectoine. In this study, ectoine was produced from corn steep liquor (CSL) and
soybean hydrolysate (SH) in replacement to yeast extract as the nitrogen sources 
for the fermentation process. To enhance the bacterial growth and ectoine
production, biotin was added to the Halomonas salina fermentation media. In
addition, the effects addition of surfactants such as Tween 80 and saponin on the
ectoine production were also investigated. Results showed that both the CSL and
SH can be used as the nitrogen source substitutes in the fermentation media.
Higher amount of ectoine (1781.9 mg L-1) was produced in shake flask culture with
SH-containing media as compared to CSL-containing media. A total of 2537.0 mg L-1
of ectoine was produced at pH 7 when SH-containing media was applied in the 2 L
batch fermentation. Moreover, highest amount of ectoine (1802.0 mg L-1) was
recorded in the SH-containing shake flask culture with addition of 0.2 μm mL-1
biotin. This study demonstrated the efficacy of industrial waste as the nutrient 
supplement for the fermentation of ectoine production.

Copyright © 2020 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier B.V.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2020.03.011 
PMID: 32370929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

