
1. J Biosci Bioeng. 2020 Aug;130(2):200-204. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2020.04.003. Epub
2020 May 7.

Primary purification of intracellular Halomonas salina ectoine using ionic
liquids-based aqueous biphasic system.

Ng HS(1), Wan PK(1), Ng TC(1), Lan JC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Applied Sciences, UCSI University, UCSI Heights, 56000 Cheras,
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Biorefinery and Bioprocessing Engineering Laboratory, Department of Chemical
Engineering and Materials Science, Yuan Ze University, Chungli, Taoyuan 320,
Taiwan. Electronic address: lanchiwei@saturn.yzu.edu.tw.

Ectoine is a zwitterionic amino acid derivative that can be naturally sourced
from halophilic microorganisms. The increasing demands of ectoine in various
industries have urged the researches on the cost-effective approaches on
production of ectoine. Ionic liquids-based aqueous biphasic system (ILABS) was
applied to recover Halomonas salina ectoine from cells hydrolysate. The
1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate (Bmim)BF4 was used in the ILABS and
the recovery efficiency of ILABS to recover ectoine from H. salina cells lysate
was evaluated by determining the effects of phase composition; pHs; crude loading
and additional neutral salt (NaCl). The hydrophilic ectoine was targeted to
partition to the hydrophilic salt-rich phase. A total yield (YB) of 96.32% ± 1.08
of ectoine was obtained with ILABS of phase composition of 20% (w/w) (Bmim)BF4
and 30% (w/w) sulfate salts; system pH of 5.5 when the 20% (w/w) of crude
feedstock was applied to the ILABS. There was no significant enhancement on the
ectoine recovery efficiency using the ILABS when NaCl was added, therefore the
ILABS composition without the additional neutral salt was recommended for the
primary purification of ectoine. Partition coefficient (KE) of 30.80 ± 0.42,
purity (PE) of 95.82% and enrichment factor (Ef) of 1.92 were recorded with the
optimum (Bmim)BF4/sulfate ILABS. These findings have provided an insight on the
feasibility of recovery of intracellular biomolecules using the green
solvent-based aqueous system in one single-step operation.

Copyright © 2020 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier B.V.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2020.04.003 
PMID: 32389469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

