
1. Intern Med. 2020 Sep 30. doi: 10.2169/internalmedicine.5676-20. [Epub ahead of
print]

Prevalence of Barrett's Epithelium Shown by Endoscopic Observations with Linked
color Imaging in Subjects with Different H. pylori Infection Statuses.

Adachi K(1), Ishimura N(2), Kishi K(1), Notsu T(1), Mishiro T(1), Sota K(1),
Ishihara S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Health Center, Shimane Environment and Health Public Corporation, Japan.
(2)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Shimane University Faculty of
Medicine, Japan.

Objective This study was conducted to clarify the prevalence of short segment
Barrett's esophagus (SSBE) using endoscopic observations with linked color
imaging (LCI). In addition, the relationship between the presence of Barrett's
epithelium (BE) and the status of H. pylori infection was investigated. Methods
The study subjects were 3,353 individuals (2,186 men, 1,167 women; mean age
55.2±9.4 years old) whose status of H. pylori infection had been determined. An
endoscopic observation using LCI was performed to examine the distal margin of
palisade vessels and confirm the area of BE. The prevalence of BE ≥5 mm in length
was investigated. Results BE was diagnosed in 1,884 (56.2%) subjects, with
lengths of <10, 10-19, 20-29, and ≥30 mm found in 1,005, 851, 27, and 1,
respectively. Its prevalence in H. pylori-negative, H. pylori-positive, and
post-eradicated subjects was 41.7%, 64.4%, and 69.9%, respectively (p<0.001). The
duration since successful eradication of H. pylori did not affect the prevalence 
of BE. The degree of gastric mucosal atrophy was higher in cases with BE
(p<0.001), although negativity for H. pylori infection and mild gastric mucosal
atrophy were significant factors for the development of longer BE. Conclusion A
high prevalence of SSBE was noted when LCI was used to determine the area of BE, 
as the distal end of the palisade vessels was easily visualized. Negativity for
H. pylori infection and mild gastric mucosal atrophy were not correlated with
SSBE prevalence.

DOI: 10.2169/internalmedicine.5676-20 
PMID: 32999237 

