
1. Org Biomol Chem. 2020 Sep 30. doi: 10.1039/d0ob01776k. [Epub ahead of print]

Cholesteryl 6-O-acyl-α-glucosides from diverse Helicobacter spp. signal through
the C-type lectin receptor Mincle.

Smith DGM(1), Ito E(2), Yamasaki S(2), Williams SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry and Bio21 Molecular Science and Biotechnology Institute,
University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3010, Australia.
sjwill@unimelb.edu.au.
(2)Department of Molecular Immunology, Immunology Frontier Research Center, Osaka
University, Suita 565-0871, Japan and Department of Molecular Immunology,
Research Institute for Microbial Diseases, Osaka University, Suita 565-0871,
Japan.

Helicobacter spp. are Gram-negative bacteria that cause a spectrum of disease in 
the gut, biliary tree and liver. Many Helicobacter spp. produce a range of
cholesteryl α-glucosides that have the potential to act as pathogen associated
molecular patterns. We report a highly stereoselective α-glucosylation of
cholesterol using 3,4,6-tri-O-acetyl-2-O-benzyl-d-glucopyranosyl
N-phenyl-2,2,2-trifluoroacetimidate, which allowed the synthesis of cholesteryl
α-glucoside (αCG) and representative Helicobacter spp. cholesteryl
6-O-acyl-α-glucosides (αCAGs; acyl = C12:0, 14:0, C16:0, C18:0, C18:1). All
αCAGs, irrespective of the nature of their acyl chain composition, strongly
agonised signalling through the C-type lectin receptor Mincle from human and
mouse to similar degrees. By contrast, αCG only weakly signalled through human
Mincle, and did not signal through mouse Mincle. These results provide a
molecular basis for understanding of the immunobiology of non-pylori Helicobacter
infections in humans and other animals.

DOI: 10.1039/d0ob01776k 
PMID: 32996960 

