
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Sep 30;9(10). pii: E658. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9100658.

Synergistic Therapies as a Promising Option for the Treatment of
Antibiotic-Resistant Helicobacter pylori.

Krzyżek P(1), Paluch E(1), Gościniak G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Wroclaw Medical University, 50-368 Wroclaw,
Poland.

Helicobacter pylori is a Gram-negative bacterium responsible for the development 
of gastric diseases. The issue of spreading antibiotic resistance of H. pylori
and its limited therapeutic options is an important topic in modern
gastroenterology. This phenomenon is greatly associated with a very narrow range 
of antibiotics used in standard therapies and, as a consequence, an alarmingly
high detection of multidrug-resistant H. pylori strains. For this reason,
scientists are increasingly focused on the search for new substances that will
not only exhibit antibacterial effect against H. pylori, but also potentiate the 
activity of antibiotics. The aim of the current review is to present scientific
reports showing newly discovered or repurposed compounds with an ability to
enhance the antimicrobial activity of classically used antibiotics against H.
pylori. To gain a broader context in their future application in therapies of H. 
pylori infections, their antimicrobial properties, such as minimal inhibitory
concentrations and minimal bactericidal concentrations, dose- and time-dependent 
mode of action, and, if characterized, anti-biofilm and/or in vivo activity are
further described. The authors of this review hope that this article will
encourage the scientific community to expand research on the important issue of
synergistic therapies in the context of combating H. pylori infections.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9100658 
PMID: 33007899 

