
1. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2020 Sep 28;13(10). pii: E276. doi: 10.3390/ph13100276.

The Potential Benefits of Vonoprazan as Helicobacter pylori Infection Therapy.

Miftahussurur M(1)(2), Pratama Putra B(3), Yamaoka Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Airlangga, Dr. Soetomo General Hospital,
Surabaya 60286, Indonesia.
(2)Institute of Tropical Disease, Universitas Airlangga, Surabaya 60132,
Indonesia.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Airlangga, Surabaya 60115, Indonesia.
(4)Department of Environmental and Preventive Medicine, Oita University Faculty
of Medicine, Yufu 879-5593, Japan.

Helicobacter pylori infection is a severe global health problem that is closely
associated with acid-related diseases and gastric malignancies. Eradicating H.
pylori is strongly recommended for lowering peptic ulcer recurrence and
preventing gastric cancer. The current approved H. pylori eradication regimen
combines a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) with two antibiotics. Unfortunately, this 
regimen failed to meet expectations mostly due to antibiotic resistance and
insufficient gastric acid suppression. Vonoprazan, a novel potassium-competitive 
acid blocker, showed promising results as a PPI replacement. Vonoprazan inhibits 
gastric acid secretion by acting as a reversible competitive inhibitor against
potassium ions and forming disulfide bonds with the cysteine molecule of
H+/K+-ATPase. Vonoprazan has superior pharmacological characteristics over PPI,
such as no requirement for acid activation, stability in acidic conditions,
shorter optimum acid suppression period, and resistance to cytochrome P (CYP)2C19
polymorphism. Several comparative randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses 
revealed the superiority of vonoprazan in eradicating H. pylori, notably the
resistant strains. The adverse effect caused by vonoprazan is long-term acid
suppression that may induce elevated gastrin serum, hypochlorhydria, and
malabsorption. All vonoprazan studies have only been conducted in Japan. Further 
studies outside Japan are necessary for universally conclusive results.

DOI: 10.3390/ph13100276 
PMID: 32998241 

