
1. PLoS One. 2020 Apr 27;15(4):e0232161. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0232161.
eCollection 2020.

Spontaneous sputum conversion and reversion in Mycobacterium abscessus complex
lung disease.

Jo KW(1), Park YE(1), Chong YP(2), Shim TS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonology and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Internal
Medicine, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul,
South Korea.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, University of Ulsan College of Medicine,
Asan Medical Center, Seoul, South Korea.

BACKGROUND: We aim to investigate the rate of spontaneous sputum conversion and
reversion in patients with Mycobacterium abscessus complex (MABC) lung disease.
METHODS: Among 241 patients diagnosed with MABC lung disease between July 2012
and December 2018, 126 patients with persistent sputum positivity for â‰¥ 6 months 
without treatment were enrolled at a tertiary referral center in South Korea.
Patients were subdivided into two groups, depending on whether or not treatment
was initiated within 2 years of diagnosis. The rates of spontaneous sputum
culture conversion and reversion was investigated in patients who did not receive
treatment within 2 years.
RESULTS: The mean age of 126 patients was 62.9 years. During a mean follow-up
duration of 3.2 years, 33 (26.2%) patients received treatment within 2 years of
diagnosis. Among the remaining 93 patients not receiving treatment within 2
years, spontaneous sputum conversion occurred in 24 (25.8%) patients during a
mean follow-up duration of 3.7 years after diagnosis. No significant differences 
were observed in time to conversion between Mycobacterium abscessus and
Mycobacterium massiliense lung diseases. The Cox regression analysis showed that 
malignancy as a comorbid disease and the lower number of lobes involved were
independent predictors of spontaneous sputum conversion. After spontaneous sputum
conversion, reversion occurred in 27.8% patients at a median of 18.2 months after
conversion.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with MABC lung disease who did not receive treatment 
for at least 2 years after diagnosis, approximately one-fourth experienced
spontaneous conversion. However, not a few patients experienced reversion after
spontaneous conversion.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0232161 
PMCID: PMC7185584
PMID: 32339194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

