
1. Atypical Mycobacterial Disease.

Winburn B(1), Sharman T(2).
In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2020-.
2020 Mar 19.

Author information: 
(1)Memorial Health University Med. Center
(2)Southern Ohio Medical Center

Atypical mycobacteria or nontuberculous mycobacteria are organisms that cause a
variety of diseases such as skin and soft tissue infection, lymphadenitis,
pulmonary infection, disseminated infection, and a wide range of more rarely
encountered infections. The most commonly encountered atypical mycobacteria that 
cause the majority of infection in humans are the Mycobacterium avium complex
bacteria (MAC), Mycobacterium avium and Mycobacterium intracellulare, also
referred to as Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare (MAI), Mycobacterium kansasii, 
Mycobacterium marinum, Mycobacterium ulcerans, Mycobacterium abscessus complex
bacteria (abscessus, massiliense, and bolletii), Mycobacterium chelonae, and
Mycobacterium fortuitum. These organisms are most commonly found in the soil,
indoor and outdoor water sources, and are recognized to colonize poorly sanitized
medical equipment. Atypical mycobacteria most commonly infect young children,
immunocompromised individuals, individuals with indwelling medical equipment, and
those who have recently undergone surgical or non-surgical procedures. These
bacteria can be further categorized into slow and rapidly growing organisms and
grouped by the organ systems which they most commonly affect. Due to their
morphology and growth patterns, atypical mycobacteria are difficult to identify
on diagnostic testing. Treatment often requires extended courses of combination
antibiotic therapy frequently with surgical intervention.[1][2]

PMID: 32310577 

