
1. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2020 Jul 28. doi: 10.1164/rccm.202004-1418OC. [Epub
ahead of print]

BACES Score for Predicting Mortality in Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Pulmonary
Disease.

Kim HJ(1), Kwak N(2)(3), Hong H(4), Kang N(5), Im Y(5), Jhun BW(5), Yim JJ(2)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Armed Forces Capital Hospital, 90156, Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care 
Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Seongnam, Korea (the Republic of).
(2)Seoul National University Hospital, 58927, Division of Pulmonary and Critical 
Care Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul, Korea (the Republic of).
(3)Seoul National University College of Medicine, 37990, Department of Internal
Medicine, Seoul, Korea (the Republic of).
(4)Seoul National University College of Medicine, 37990, Division of Medical
Statistics, Medical Research Collaborating Center, Seoul, Korea (the Republic
of).
(5)Samsung Medical Center, 36626, Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care
Medicine, Department of Medicine, Seoul, Korea (the Republic of).
(6)Seoul National University College of Medicine, 37990, Department of Internal
Medicine, Seoul, Korea (the Republic of); yimjj@snu.ac.kr.

Rationale: Because the prognosis of nontuberculous mycobacterial pulmonary
disease varies, a scoring system predicting mortality is needed. Objectives: We
aimed to develop a novel scoring system to predict mortality among patients with 
nontuberculous mycobacterial pulmonary disease. Methods: We included patients age
≥20 years, newly diagnosed with nontuberculous mycobacterial pulmonary disease,
with Mycobacterium avium, M. intracellulare, M. abscessus subsp. abscessus, or M.
abscessus subsp. massiliense. Cox proportional hazards models were used to
identify predictors of mortality in a derivation cohort, and a scoring system was
developed. It was validated in an independent prospective cohort. Measurements
and Main Results: A total 1,181 and 377 patients were included in the derivation 
and validation cohorts, respectively. In the final model, body mass index <18.5
kg/m2 (1 point), age ≥65 years (1 point), presence of cavity (1 point), elevated 
erythrocyte sedimentation rate (1 point), and male sex (1 point) were selected as
predictors for mortality. We named this novel scoring system BACES (body mass
index, age, cavity, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and sex). Harrell's C-index
for the BACES score was 0.812 (95% confidence interval: 0.786-0.837) in the
derivation cohort and 0.854 (95% confidence interval: 0.797-0.911) in the
validation cohort, indicating excellent discrimination performance. The estimated
5-year risk of mortality was 1.2% with BACES score 0 and 82.9% with BACES score
5. Conclusions: We developed the BACES score, which could accurately predict
mortality among patients with nontuberculous mycobacterial pulmonary disease
caused by M. avium, M. intracellulare, M. abscessus subsp. abscessus, or M.
abscessus subsp. massiliense.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.202004-1418OC 
PMID: 32721164 

