
1. Carbohydr Polym. 2020 Nov 15;248:116832. doi: 10.1016/j.carbpol.2020.116832. Epub
2020 Jul 27.

Effects of fructans and probiotics on the inhibition of Klebsiella oxytoca and
the production of short-chain fatty acids assessed by NMR spectroscopy.

Higashi B(1), Mariano TB(1), de Abreu Filho BA(2), Gonçalves RAC(1), de Oliveira 
AJB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences, Department of Pharmacy, State
University of Maringá, Ave. Colombo 5790, 87.020-900, Maringá, Brazil.
(2)Departament of Basic Health Sciences, State University of Maringá, Ave.
Colombo 5790, 87.020-900, Maringá, Brazil.
(3)Graduate Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences, Department of Pharmacy, State
University of Maringá, Ave. Colombo 5790, 87.020-900, Maringá, Brazil. Electronic
address: ajboliveira@uem.br.

Generally, the selection of fructans prebiotics and probiotics for the
formulation of a symbiotic has been based on arbitrary considerations and in
vitro tests that fail to take into account competitiveness and other interactions
with autochthonous members of the intestinal microbiota. However, such analyzes
may be a valuable step in the development of the symbiotic. The present study,
therefore, aims to investigate the effect of lactobacilli strains and fructans
(prebiotic compounds) on the growth of the intestinal competitor Klebsiella
oxytoca, and to assess the correlation with short-chain fatty acids production.
The short-chain fatty acids formed in the fermentation of the probiotic/prebiotic
combination were investigated using NMR spectroscopy, and the inhibitory
activities were assessed by agar diffusion and co-culture methods. The results
showed that Lactobacillus strains can inhibit K. oxytoca, and that this
antagonism is influenced by the fructans source and probably associated with
organic acid production.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carbpol.2020.116832 
PMID: 32919546 

