
1. Cureus. 2020 Aug 26;12(8):e10060. doi: 10.7759/cureus.10060.

Rising Klebsiella pneumoniae Infections and Its Expanding Drug Resistance in the 
Intensive Care Unit of a Tertiary Healthcare Hospital, Saudi Arabia.

Al Bshabshe A(1), Al-Hakami A(2), Alshehri B(3), Al-Shahrani KA(3), Alshehri
AA(3), Al Shahrani MB(4), Assiry I(4), Joseph MR(2), Alkahtani A(2), Hamid ME(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, King Khalid University, Abha, SAU.
(2)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Parasitology, King Khalid University, 
Abha, SAU.
(3)Internal Medicine, King Khalid University, Abha, SAU.
(4)Intensive Care Unit, Aseer Central Hospital, Abha, SAU.

Nosocomial infections caused by Klebsiella pneumoniae and other Gram-negative
organisms have emerged as a significant health problem especially in intensive
care units (ICU). This study aims to examine K. pneumoniae infections in the ICU 
of Aseer Central Hospital and to determine their antimicrobial susceptibility and
their relationship to patients' clinical outcomes. This is a retrospective
observational study done in a tertiary care center in the Aseer region in Saudi
Arabia. The study spanned from January 2018 to December 2019. Demographic,
microbiologic, and patient outcomes were collected from 276 patients with various
infections. Identification of isolates and in vitro susceptibility to 32
antimicrobial agents were done by the Vitek 2 automated system (bioMérieux,
Marcy-l'Étoile, France). Prevalence of K. pneumoniae bacteria, their
susceptibility to antimicrobials, and effect on clinical outcome were studied.
Two hundred seventy-six K. pneumoniae were recovered from ICU patients with
various infections. K. pneumoniae isolates (n=276) were collected mainly from the
respiratory tract (61%) and K. pneumoniae represented 39% of the major causal
agents of ICU infections, followed by Acinetobacter spp. (30%), Pseudomonas
aeruginosa (10.0%), Escherichia coli (7%), and others (14%). The mortality among 
the 276 ICU patients was 33.3%; K. pneumoniae was connected to 42% of the cases
and 67% of the total deaths were between 50 and 90 years of age. K. pneumoniae
demonstrated high sensitivity and hence can be recommended for in vivo treatment 
for tigecycline (81%), cefazolin (77.2%), colistin (64.9%), and to a lesser
extent norfloxacin (60%) and imipenem (55.5%). High resistance was detected for
ampicillin (100%), extended-spectrum β-lactamases-sulbactam (ESBL-SCM) (100%),
piperacillin (100%), and ceftazidime (92.5%). Resistance to carbapenems was
elevated in ertapenem (65.2%) and meropenem (61.7%). The increase of K.
pneumoniae represents a threat to ICU patients, although K. pneumoniae infections
were results rather than the causes, as it was connected to almost half of the
ICU mortalities. Tigecycline alone or in combination with colistin on high-dose
regimens could be a more effective therapy for treating carbapenem-resistant K.
pneumoniae infections.

Copyright © 2020, Al Bshabshe et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.10060 
PMCID: PMC7520404
PMID: 32999783 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

