
1. Dose Response. 2020 Jul 24;18(3):1559325820941374. doi: 10.1177/1559325820941374.
eCollection 2020 Jul-Sep.

Bactericidal Activity Study of ZrO2-Ag2O Nanoparticles.

Ayanwale AP(1), Ruíz-Baltazar AJ(2), Espinoza-Cristóbal L(1), Reyes-López SY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ciencias Biomédicas, Universidad Autónoma de Ciudad Juárez,
Envolvente del PRONAF y Estocolmo s/n, Ciudad Juárez, Chih, México.
(2)CONACYT-Centro de Física Aplicada y Tecnología Avanzada, Universidad Nacional 
Autónoma de México, Boulevard Juriquilla, Juriquilla Querétaro, QRO, México.

In view of the continuous resistance to antibacterial agents by bacteria and the 
existing problems of silver nanoparticles as an antibacterial agent, this study
reports on the synthesis of pure zirconium oxide, silver oxide, and ZrO2-Ag2O
nanoparticles by sol-gel method. The nanoparticles were analyzed and tested for
their antibacterial activity against gram-positive bacteria of Bacillus subtilis,
Streptococcus mutans, Staphylococcus aureus, and gram-negative of Escherichia
coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Klebsiella oxytoca. X-ray diffraction showed
the monoclinic ZrO2, cubic Ag2O, and peaks corresponding to ZrO2 and Ag2O in
their mixed samples. Scanning electron microscopy showed spherically shaped
nanoparticles while dynamic light scattering analysis showed ZrO2 (76 nm), Ag2O
(50 nm), and ZrO2-Ag2O samples between 14 and 42 nm. The Fourier Transformed
Infrared spectroscopy spectra of ZrO2 gave bands at 480 cm-1 to 750 cm-1 (M-O
stretching) with Ag2O at 580 cm-1, while ZrO2-Ag2O samples showed bands at 760
cm-1. The screening by agar diffusion assay revealed a pronounced increase in the
antibacterial activity of ZrO2-Ag2O against all the tested bacteria when compared
with the pure ZrO2 and Ag2O. The improved antibacterial activity of ZrO2-Ag2O
largely results from the chemical stability conferred on it by the ZrO2 as
observed from the zeta potential measurement.

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1177/1559325820941374 
PMCID: PMC7383718
PMID: 32782447 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.

