
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 28;8(10). pii: E1487. doi:
10.3390/microorganisms8101487.

High Colonization Rate and Heterogeneity of ESBL- and Carbapenemase-Producing
Enterobacteriaceae Isolated from Gull Feces in Lisbon, Portugal.

Aires-de-Sousa M(1)(2)(3), Fournier C(1), Lopes E(3), de Lencastre H(3)(4),
Nordmann P(1)(5), Poirel L(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Emerging Antibiotic Resistance Unit, Medical and Molecular Microbiology,
Faculty of Science and Medicine, University of Fribourg, CH-1700 Fribourg,
Switzerland.
(2)Escola Superior de Saúde da Cruz Vermelha Portuguesa, 1300 Lisbon, Portugal.
(3)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, Instituto de Tecnologia Química e Biológica 
António Xavier, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, 2780 Oeiras, Portugal.
(4)Laboratory of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, The Rockefeller
University, New York, NY 10065, USA.
(5)Swiss National Reference Center for Emerging Antibiotic Resistance (NARA),
CH-1700 Fribourg, Switzerland.

In order to evaluate whether seagulls living on the Lisbon coastline, Portugal,
might be colonized and consequently represent potential spreaders of
multidrug-resistant bacteria, a total of 88 gull fecal samples were screened for 
detection of extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)- or carbapenemase-producing
Enterobacteriaceae for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and for
vancomycin-resistant Enterococci (VRE). A large proportion of samples yielded
carbapenemase- or ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae (16% and 55%, respectively), 
while only two MRSA and two VRE were detected. Mating-out assays followed by PCR 
and whole-plasmid sequencing allowed to identify carbapenemase and ESBL encoding 
genes. Among 24 carbapenemase-producing isolates, there were mainly Klebsiella
pneumoniae (50%) and Escherichia coli (33%). OXA-181 was the most common
carbapenemase identified (54%), followed by OXA-48 (25%) and KPC-2 (17%). Ten
different ESBLs were found among 62 ESBL-producing isolates, mainly being
CTX-M-type enzymes (87%). Co-occurrence in single samples of multiple ESBL- and
carbapenemase producers belonging to different bacterial species was observed in 
some cases. Seagulls constitute an important source for spreading
multidrug-resistant bacteria in the environment and their gut microbiota a
formidable microenvironment for transfer of resistance genes within bacterial
species.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8101487 
PMID: 32998209 

