
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jun 24;11:1256. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01256. eCollection 
2020.

Colonization of Mice With Amoxicillin-Associated Klebsiella variicola Drives
Inflammation via Th1 Induction and Treg Inhibition.

Lin H(1), Wang Q(1)(2), Liu L(1), Chen Z(1), Das R(1), Zhao Y(1), Mao D(3), Luo
Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Pollution Processes and Environmental 
Criteria, College of Environmental Sciences and Engineering, Nankai University,
Tianjin, China.
(2)Hebei Key Laboratory of Air Pollution Cause and Impact (preparatory), College 
of Energy and Environmental Engineering, Hebei University of Engineering, Handan,
China.
(3)School of Medicine, Nankai University, Tianjin, China.

β-Lactam antibiotics can increase the resistance and virulence of individual
intestinal microorganisms, which may affect host physiology and health.
Klebsiella, a crucial gut inhabitant, has been confirmed to be resistant to most 
β-lactam antibiotics and contributes to the etiology of inflammatory bowel
disease (IBD). In this study, the influence of amoxicillin (AMO) on Klebsiella
and its role in colitis was investigated in an antibiotic cocktail (ABx) murine
model. The results suggested that a 7-day AMO treatment significantly enriched
the abundance of Klebsiella and enhanced serum resistance, antibiotic resistance,
and biofilm formation ability of Klebsiella variicola (K. variicola) compared to 
the wild-type strain in the control group mice. Colonization of mice with the
AMO-associated K. variicola could induce Th1 cells and inhibit Treg
differentiation to promote inflammation in ABx murine model. In addition,
inoculation of AMO-associated K. variicola in dextran sodium sulfate
(DSS)-induced colitis murine model mice also confirmed that K. variicola
colonization exacerbated inflammation as assessed by increased TNF-α, IFN-γ,
IL-17a, and disease activity (DAI) levels; decreased colon length and bodyweight;
and a disrupted Th1/Treg balance. The results of our study demonstrate that AMO
enhances Klebsiella virulence in mice by disrupting the T cell equilibrium to
exacerbate colitis, thereby providing a reference for proper antibiotic
prescription.

Copyright © 2020 Lin, Wang, Liu, Chen, Das, Zhao, Mao and Luo.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01256 
PMCID: PMC7326774
PMID: 32670220 

