
1. PLoS One. 2020 Jul 15;15(7):e0235345. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0235345.
eCollection 2020.

Co-exposure risks of pesticides residues and bacterial contamination in fresh
fruits and vegetables under smallholder horticultural production systems in
Tanzania.

Kapeleka JA(1)(2), Sauli E(1), Sadik O(3), Ndakidemi PA(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology (NM-AIST),
Arusha, Tanzania.
(2)Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI), Arusha, Tanzania.
(3)Department of Chemistry and Environmental Science, New Jersey Institute of
Technology, Tiernan Hall Newark, Newark, New Jersey, United States of America.

This study was carried out to investigate the risks of simultaneous exposure to
pesticide residues and bacteria contaminants in locally produced fresh vegetables
and vegetables in Tanzania. A total of 613 samples were analyzed for pesticide
residues, out of which 250 were also analyzed for bacterial contamination.
Overall, 47.5% had pesticide residues, 74.2% exceeded Maximum Residue Levels
(MRLs). Organophosphorus (95.2%), organochlorines (24.0%), pyrethroids (17.3%),
and carbamates (9.2%) residues dominated. MRL values were mostly exceeded in
tomatoes, onions, watermelons, cucumbers, Chinese cabbage, and sweet paper.
Tetramethrin (0.0329-1.3733 mg/kg), pirimiphos-methyl (0.0003-1.4093 mg/kg),
permethrin (0.0009-2.4537 mg/kg), endosulfan (beta) (0.0008-2.3416 mg/kg),
carbaryl (0.0215-1.5068 mg/kg), profenofos (0.0176-2.1377 mg/kg), chlorpyrifos
(0.0004-1.2549 mg/kg) and dieldrin (0.0011-0.5271 mg/kg) exceeded MRLs. The
prevalence of bacteria contamination was high (63.2%). Enterobacter (55.6%)
Pseudomonas aeruginosa (32.4%), E. coli (28.2%), Citrobacter (26.8%), Klebsiella 
oxytoca (14.8%), and Salmonella (7.7%) were isolated. Furthermore, 46.4% tested
positive for both pesticide residues and bacterial contaminants. Vegetables from 
farms (60.7%) contained more dual contaminants than market-based vegetables
(41.8%). This may have resulted from excessive pesticide use and unhygienic
handling of fresh fruits and vegetables at production level. Binary logistic
regression showed that fresh fruits and vegetables with pesticide residues were
2.231 times more likely to have bacteria contaminants (OR: 2.231; 95% CI: 0.501, 
8.802). The contamination levels of pesticide residues and bacterial contaminants
could be perceived as a serious problem as most fresh fruits and vegetables
recorded values of pesticide residues far above the MRLs with pathogenic bacteria
isolated in higher proportions. MRLs was higher in most vegetables consumed raw
or semi-cooked such as watermelons, carrots, cucumber, tomatoes, onion and sweet 
paper. There is an urgent need to develop pesticide monitoring and surveillance
systems at farmer level, educating farmers and promoting the use of greener
pesticides to mitigate the health effects of pesticides and bacterial
contaminants.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0235345 
PMCID: PMC7363064
PMID: 32667930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

