
1. Br J Surg. 2020 Sep 30. doi: 10.1002/bjs.12003. [Epub ahead of print]

Influence of Klebsiella pneumoniae and quinolone treatment on prognosis in
patients with pancreatic cancer.

Weniger M(1)(2), Hank T(1), Qadan M(1), Ciprani D(1), Michelakos T(1), Niess
H(2), Heiliger C(2), Ilmer M(2), D'Haese JG(2), Ferrone CR(1), Warshaw AL(1),
Lillemoe KD(1), Werner J(2), Liss A(1), Fernández-Del Castillo C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Department of General, Visceral and Transplantation Surgery,
Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: An increasing body of evidence suggests that microbiota may promote
progression of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). It was hypothesized that 
gammaproteobacteria (such as Klebsiella pneumoniae) influence survival in PDAC,
and that quinolone treatment may attenuate this effect.
METHODS: This was a retrospective study of patients from the Massachusetts
General Hospital (USA) and Ludwig-Maximilians-University (Germany) who underwent 
preoperative treatment and pancreatoduodenectomy for locally advanced or
borderline resectable PDAC between January 2007 and December 2017, and for whom a
bile culture was available. Associations between tumour characteristics, survival
data, antibiotic use and results of intraoperative bile cultures were
investigated. Survival was analysed using Kaplan-Meier curves and Cox regression 
analysis.
RESULTS: Analysis of a total of 211 patients revealed that an increasing number
of pathogen species found in intraoperative bile cultures was associated with a
decrease in progression-free survival (PFS) (-1·9 (95 per cent c.i. -3·3 to -0·5)
months per species; P = 0·009). Adjuvant treatment with gemcitabine improved PFS 
in patients who were negative for K. pneumoniae (26·2 versus 15·3 months;
P = 0·039), but not in those who tested positive (19·5 versus 13·2 months;
P = 0·137). Quinolone treatment was associated with improved median overall
survival (OS) independent of K. pneumoniae status (48·8 versus 26·2 months;
P = 0·006) and among those who tested positive for K. pneumoniae (median not
reached versus 18·8 months; P = 0·028). Patients with quinolone-resistant K.
pneumoniae had shorter PFS than those with quinolone-sensitive K. pneumoniae (9·1
versus 18·8 months; P = 0·001).
CONCLUSION: K. pneumoniae may promote chemoresistance to adjuvant gemcitabine,
and quinolone treatment is associated with improved survival.

Publisher: Cada vez hay más evidencia que sugiere que la microbiota puede
favorecer la progresión del adenocarcinoma ductal del páncreas (pancreatic ductal
adenocarcinoma, PDAC). Se estableció la hipótesis de que las gammaproteobacterias
(p.ej. Klebsiella pneumoniae) podían afectar la supervivencia del PDAC y que el
tratamiento con quinolonas podría atenuar dicho efecto. MÉTODOS: Se llevó a cabo 
un estudio retrospectivo de pacientes del Massachusetts General Hospital (EE.UU.)
y de Ludwig-Maximilians-University (Alemania) que fueron tratados
preoperatoriamente y sometidos a duodenopancreatectomía por PDAC localmente
avanzado o en los límites de la resecabilidad (01/2007-12/2017) y para los cuales
se disponía de cultivos biliares. Se correlacionaron las características del
tumor, datos de supervivencia, uso de antibióticos y resultados de los cultivos
biliares intraoperatorios. La supervivencia se analizó mediante curvas de
Kaplan-Mier y regresión de Cox.El análisis de un total de 211 pacientes puso de
manifiesto que un número creciente de especies patógenas aisladas en los cultivos
biliares intraoperatorios se asociaba con una disminución de la supervivencia
libre de progresión (progression-free survival, PFS) (-1,9 meses/especies, i.c.
del 95% -3,3 a -0,5 meses, P = 0,009). El tratamiento adyuvante con gemcitabina
aumentó la PFS en los pacientes K. pneumoniae negativos (26,2 versus 15,3 meses, 
P = 0,039), pero no en los pacientes K. pneumoniae positivos (19,5 versus 13,2
meses, P = 0,137). El tratamiento con quinolonas se asoció con una mejoría de la 
mediana de la supervivencia global, independientemente del estado de la K.
pneumoniae (48,8 versus 26,2 meses, P = 0,006), así como en los pacientes K.
pneumoniae positivos (mediana no alcanzada versus 18,8 meses, P = 0,028). Los
pacientes con K. pneumoniae resistente a las quinolonas presentaron una PFS más
corta que los pacientes con K. pneumoniae sensible a las quinolonas (9,1 versus
18,8 meses, P = 0,001). CONCLUSIÓN: K. pneumoniae puede favorecer
quimiorresistencia al tratamiento adyuvante con gemcitabina y el tratamiento con 
quinolonas se asocia con una mejoría de la supervivencia.
© 2020 BJS Society Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.12003 
PMID: 32996598 

