
1. Wilderness Environ Med. 2020 Sep;31(3):324-326. doi: 10.1016/j.wem.2020.04.003.
Epub 2020 Jul 30.

Prolonged Brackish Water Exposure: A Case Report.

Hughey SB(1), McCoy KL(2), Mills AE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Naval Medical Center Portsmouth, Portsmouth, Virginia. Electronic address:
scott.b.hughey@gmail.com.
(2)Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, Virginia.

Exposure to and consumption of brackish water are associated with an elevated
risk of infection, hypernatremia, and hypothermia. Minimal data exist to support 
the diagnosis and treatment of patients with long-term brackish water exposure.
We present a case of a patient who spent 5 to 10 d semisubmerged in the Elizabeth
River in coastal Virginia. A 55-y-old male presented via ambulance after 5 to 10 
d of being "stuck in the mud." He was hypernatremic, with a sodium of 176
mEq·L-1, hypothermic to 34.5°C (94.1°F), and hypotensive at 88/50 mm Hg, with a
sodium concentration of 176 mEq·L-1 and an osmolality of 412 mosm·kg-1. He
developed pneumonia, with respiratory cultures growing Vibrio parahemolyticus,
Klebsiella oxytoca, and Shewanella algae. He had pustules, which grew Aeromonas
hydrophilia and Aeromonas caviae. A nasogastric tube was placed. Using suction,
500 mL of coarse sand and gravel was removed from his stomach. Antibiotics and
intravenous fluids were given. The patient fully recovered after 3 wk and was
discharged to rehabilitation. Exposure to brackish water can present a unique set
of infectious and metabolic complications. Initial care should include treatment 
of metabolic derangements, such as hypovolemia, hypernatremia, and hypothermia,
and treatment of infections with antibiotics based on knowledge of the most
likely causative organisms.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wem.2020.04.003 
PMID: 32739040 

