
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Oct 3. doi: 10.1007/s00253-020-10933-0. [Epub
ahead of print]

Combining metabolic engineering and evolutionary adaptation in Klebsiella oxytoca
KMS004 to significantly improve optically pure D-(-)-lactic acid yield and
specific productivity in low nutrient medium.

In S(1), Khunnonkwao P(1), Wong N(1), Phosiran C(1), Jantama SS(2), Jantama K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Metabolic Engineering Research Unit, School of Biotechnology, Suranaree
University of Technology, 111 University Avenue, Suranaree, Muang, Nakhon
Ratchasima, 30000, Thailand.
(2)Department of Bio-pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Ubon
Ratchathani University, Warinchamrap, Ubon Ratchathani, 34190, Thailand.
(3)Metabolic Engineering Research Unit, School of Biotechnology, Suranaree
University of Technology, 111 University Avenue, Suranaree, Muang, Nakhon
Ratchasima, 30000, Thailand. kaemwich@sut.ac.th.

In this study, K. oxytoca KMS004 (ΔadhE Δpta-ackA) was further reengineered by
the deletion of frdABCD and pflB genes to divert carbon flux through
D-(-)-lactate production. During fermentation of high glucose concentration, the 
resulted strain named K. oxytoca KIS004 showed poor in growth and glucose
consumption due to its insufficient capacity to generate acetyl-CoA for
biosynthesis. Evolutionary adaptation was thus employed with the strain to
overcome impaired growth and acetate auxotroph. The evolved K. oxytoca KIS004-91T
strain exhibited significantly higher glucose-utilizing rate and D-(-)-lactate
production as a primary route to regenerate NAD+. D-(-)-lactate at concentration 
of 133 g/L (1.48 M), with yield and productivity of 0.98 g/g and 2.22 g/L/h,
respectively, was obtained by the strain. To the best of our knowledge, this
strain provided a relatively high specific productivity of 1.91 g/gCDW/h among
those of other previous works. Cassava starch was also used to demonstrate a
potential low-cost renewable substrate for D-(-)-lactate production. Production
cost of D-(-)-lactate was estimated at $3.72/kg. Therefore, it is possible for
the KIS004-91T strain to be an alternative biocatalyst offering a more
economically competitive D-(-)-lactate production on an industrial scale. KEY
POINTS: • KIS004-91T produced optically pure D-(-)-lactate up to 1.48 M in a low 
salts medium. • It possessed the highest specific D-(-)-lactate productivity than
other reported strains. • Cassava starch as a cheap and renewable substrate was
used for D-(-)-lactate production. • Costs related to media, fermentation,
purification, and waste disposal were reduced.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10933-0 
PMID: 33009939 

