
1. mSystems. 2020 Jul 14;5(4). pii: e00140-20. doi: 10.1128/mSystems.00140-20.

Tracking Recombination Events That Occur in Conjugative Virulence Plasmid
p15WZ-82_Vir during the Transmission Process.

Yang X(1), Ye L(1), Chan EW(2), Zhang R(3), Chen S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases and Public Health, Jockey Club College of
Veterinary Medicine and Life Sciences, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon,
Hong Kong.
(2)State Key Lab of Chemical Biology and Drug Discovery, Department of Applied
Biology and Chemical Technology, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, 
Hong Kong.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, School of Medicine, Second Affiliated
Hospital of Zhejiang University, Zhejiang, Hangzhou, China.
(4)Department of Infectious Diseases and Public Health, Jockey Club College of
Veterinary Medicine and Life Sciences, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon,
Hong Kong shechen@cityu.edu.hk.

We recently reported the recovery of a conjugative virulence plasmid,
p15WZ-82_Vir, from a clinical Klebsiella variicola strain. In this study, we
found that several new plasmid types were generated due to genetic rearrangement.
Partial integration of plasmid p15WZ-82_Vir with existing plasmids such as
resistance plasmids by different homologous recombination events was observable
in three recipient strains. Such recombination events enable the formation of
various types of mosaic plasmids simultaneously carrying virulence-encoding and
antibiotic resistance-encoding genes as well as genes involved in plasmid
conjugation, which promote transmission of various virulence-encoding and
resistance-encoding elements among pathogens. Our data also suggest that these
conjugative events may play an integral role in the development of novel mosaic
plasmids, which is vital for plasmid evolution.IMPORTANCE Although they are often
nonconjugative, large virulence plasmids are increasingly detected in clinical K.
pneumoniae and contribute to the hypervirulence phenotype of this organism. In
this study, we demonstrated that the virulence-encoding region that originated
from virulence plasmid pLVPK actively interacted with different types of plasmids
via homologous recombination to generate new conjugative plasmids. This report
provides insights into the evolution of self-transmissible plasmids carrying
genetic elements encoding both hypervirulent and multidrug-resistant phenotypes, 
which facilitate the rapid development of clinical K. pneumoniae strains that are
hypervirulent and multidrug resistant.

Copyright Â© 2020 Yang et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSystems.00140-20 
PMCID: PMC7363002
PMID: 32665326 

