
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Mar;140:103966. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.103966. Epub 2020
Jan 3.

Characterization and phytostimulatory activity of bacteria isolated from tomato
(Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) rhizosphere.

Sunera(1), Amna(2), Saqib S(3), Uddin S(2), Zaman W(4), Ullah F(5), Ayaz A(2),
Asghar M(6), Rehman SU(7), Munis MFH(2), Chaudhary HJ(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences Quaid-i-Azam University Islamabad, Pakistan.
Electronic address: sunera@bs.qau.edu.pk.
(2)Department of Plant Sciences Quaid-i-Azam University Islamabad, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Mohi-Ud-Din Islamic University, Nerian Sharif,
AJ&K, Pakistan; State Key Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany,
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100093, China;
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Institute of
Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100093, China; University of
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China.
(5)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China; CAS Key
Laboratory of Mountain Ecological Restoration and Bioresource Utilization,
Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chengdu, China.
(6)Department of Biotechnology, Mohi-Ud-Din Islamic University, Nerian Sharif,
AJ&K, Pakistan.
(7)College of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Punjab, Lahore,
Pakistan.
(8)Department of Plant Sciences Quaid-i-Azam University Islamabad, Pakistan.
Electronic address: hassaan@qau.edu.pk.

Replacing agrochemicals with plant growth promoting bacteria (PGPB) may offset
some of the environmental impacts of food production. The objectives of this
study were to (1) isolate and characterize bacterial strains from tomato
rhizosphere, including root, shoot and leaf, (2) select and identify the most
promising PGPB strains, (3) verify the phytostimulatory activity and mineral
uptake potential of selected strains. Bacterial strains isolated from tomato
rhizosphere, were screened for phosphorous (P) solubilization, production of
indole acetic acid (IAA), amylase activity, antibiotic resistance, and quick test
strip (QTS) for biochemical characterization. The tested strains, positive for
all five of these assays were selected for molecular identification and subjected
to greenhouse growth trails with tomato and mung bean. Two strains were selected 
and identified as Bacillus cereus (B. cereus) isolated from rhizosphere and
Klebsiella variicola (K. variicola) isolated from root endosphere using 16s rRNA 
sequences. Both strains produced IAA, gibberellic acid (GA3) and kinetin, however
B. cereus showed potential GA3 and IAA production as compared to K. variicola. In
tomato, only one growth variable (shoot length) was increased over the control by
one of the selected bacterial strains (B. cereus). In mung bean, inoculation with
either strain B. cereus or K. variicola increased shoot length and dry weight.
Moreover, our results showed that the use of PGPB significantly increased plant
growth and Fe, Zn, Ca, Mg, Cu, Na and K contents of plants. It seems that
evaluated strains had a higher ability in boosting plant growth and higher yield.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.103966 
PMID: 31911192 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that there is no conflict of interest.

