
1. J Med Microbiol. 2019 Dec;68(12):1707-1715. doi: 10.1099/jmm.0.001087. Epub 2019 
Oct 29.

First Identification and genomic characterization of multidrug-resistant
carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae clinical isolates in Malawi, Africa.

Kumwenda GP(1)(2)(3), Sugawara Y(1), Abe R(2)(1), Akeda Y(2)(1), Kasambara W(3), 
Chizani K(3), Takeuchi D(1), Sakamoto N(1), Tomono K(2), Hamada S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Japan-Thailand Research Collaboration Center on Emerging and Re-emerging
Infections, Research Institute for Microbial Diseases, Osaka University, Suita,
Japan.
(2)Division of Infection Control and Prevention, Osaka University Hospital,
Suita, Japan.
(3)Microbiology Department, National Reference Laboratory, Community Health
Sciences Unit, Ministry of Health, Lilongwe, Malawi.

Purpose. Carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae (CPE) have become a global
concern and a serious threat to human health due to their resistance to multiple 
antibiotics. In this study, we identified and characterized CPE for the first
time in Malawi, southeastern Africa.Methodology. We investigated the possible
presence of carbapenemases among a collection of 200 ceftriaxone-nonsusceptible
Gram-negative clinical isolates obtained from five Malawian hospitals between
January 2016 and December 2017, using both phenotypic and genotypic tests.
Molecular typing of CPE was done by PFGE, multilocus sequence typing (ST) or
phylogenetic grouping. Resistant plasmids were characterized by S1 PFGE, Southern
blotting and conjugation assays.Results. Out of 200 isolates, we detected 16
(8 %) CPE of which all originated from one referral hospital, Kamuzu Central
Hospital, in the Central part of Malawi. Of 16 isolates, seven Klebsiella
pneumoniae ST340/CC258 carried bla KPC-2, two Escherichia coli ST636 (phylogroup 
B2) carried bla NDM-5, six E. coli ST617 (phylogroup A) and one Klebsiella
variicola carried bla OXA-48. All carbapenemases were plasmid-encoded, but only
bla NDM-5-carrying plasmids could be conjugated. Most isolates co-harboured other
β-lactamases and consequently exhibited a wider spectrum of resistance to
commonly used antibiotics. We observed indistinguishable genetic profiles between
strain types, despite originating from different wards, suggesting acquisition
during admission and intra-hospital spread.Conclusion. This report strongly
suggests a probable existence of highly resistant various types of CPE organisms 
in Malawi including KPC-2-producing K. pneumoniae ST340/CC258, a known high-risk 
epidemic lineage.

DOI: 10.1099/jmm.0.001087 
PMID: 31661049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

