
1. Medicina (Kaunas). 2020 Sep 28;56(10). pii: E507. doi: 10.3390/medicina56100507.

Importance of Susceptibility Rate of 'the First' Isolate: Evidence of Real-World 
Data.

Kim S(1), Yoo SJ(2), Chang J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Medicine, Inje University, Ilsan Paik Hospital, Goyang 10380,
Korea.
(2)Laboratory Medicine, Inje University, Sanggye Paik Hospital, Seoul 10757,
Korea.

Background and objectives: For proper antimicrobial therapy, cumulative
antibiograms should be representative of geographic region and be accurate.
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) guidelines recommend that only
the first isolates (FI) of a species per patient are used when reporting
cumulative antibiograms. However, >50% of hospitals in the United States report
antibiograms of all isolates. We compared antibiograms from the FI with those
from total isolates (TI). Materials and Methods: Antimicrobial data of all
isolates identified in the Microbiology unit of Ilsan Paik Hospital in 2019 were 
retrospectively acquired from the hospital information system. The susceptibility
rates to antimicrobials of Escherichia coli, Acinetobacter baumannii, Klebsiella 
pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecium, 
and Enterococcus faecalis were analyzed by FI and TI, respectively. Isolate
counts and susceptibility rates of each species for the reported antimicrobials
were compared. Results: The numbers of isolates by FI/TI were as follows:
1824/2692 E. coli, 480/1611 A. baumannii, and 662/1306 K. pneumoniae, and 407/953
P. aeruginosa for gram-negative bacteria and 649/1364 S. aureus, 211/313 E.
faecium, and 323/394 E. faecalis for gram-positive bacteria. All antimicrobial
agents showed higher susceptibility rates when calculated as FI than as TI in
gram-negative bacteria except colistin: 3.7% for E. coli, 14.5% for A. baumannii,
8.3% for K. pneumoniae, and 7.9% for P. aeruginosa. In S. aureus, 8/11
antimicrobial agents revealed higher susceptibility rates for FI than for TI. E. 
faecalis and E. faecium showed lower susceptibility rates for 7/10 antimicrobial 
agents for FI than for TI. The oxacillin susceptibility rates of S. aureus were
36.6%/30.2% with FI/TI and vancomycin susceptibility rates for E. faecium were
54.1% and 49.5%, respectively. Conclusions: When comparing cumulative
antibiograms by FI with TI using real-world data, there is a large gap for
critical species requiring hospital infection control. Although FI calculation is
difficult, antibiograms must be calculated as FI for proper preemptive
antimicrobial therapy because FI provides proper antimicrobial susceptibility
data.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina56100507 
PMID: 32998192 

