
1. Cell Rep. 2020 Sep 29;32(13):108188. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2020.108188.

Human Placental MSC-Secreted IL-1β Enhances Neutrophil Bactericidal Functions
during Hypervirulent Klebsiella Infection.

Wang LT(1), Wang HH(2), Chiang HC(1), Huang LY(3), Chiu SK(4), Siu LK(5), Liu
KJ(6), Yen ML(7), Yen BL(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, National Taiwan University (NTU)
Hospital and College of Medicine, NTU, Taipei 100, Taiwan.
(2)Regenerative Medicine Research Group, Institute of Cellular and System
Medicine, National Health Research Institutes (NHRI), Zhunan 350, Taiwan.
(3)National Institute of Infectious Diseases and Vaccinology, NHRI, Zhunan 350,
Taiwan.
(4)Division of Infectious Diseases and Tropical Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Tri-Service General Hospital, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei
114, Taiwan.
(5)National Institute of Infectious Diseases and Vaccinology, NHRI, Zhunan 350,
Taiwan; Division of Infectious Diseases and Tropical Medicine, Department of
Internal Medicine, Tri-Service General Hospital, National Defense Medical Center,
Taipei 114, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of Basic Medical Science, China Medical
University, Taichung 404, Taiwan.
(6)National Institute of Cancer Research, NHRI, Zhunan 350, Taiwan; Institute of 
Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, National Cheng Kung University,
Tainan 701, Taiwan; School of Medical Laboratory Science and Biotechnology,
Taipei Medical University, Taipei 110, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, National Taiwan University (NTU)
Hospital and College of Medicine, NTU, Taipei 100, Taiwan. Electronic address:
mlyen@ntu.edu.tw.
(8)Regenerative Medicine Research Group, Institute of Cellular and System
Medicine, National Health Research Institutes (NHRI), Zhunan 350, Taiwan;
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Cathay General Hospital Shiji, New
Taipei 221, Taiwan. Electronic address: blyen@nhri.org.tw.

Hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae (hvKP) causes severe infections even in
healthy individuals by escaping surveillance and killing from polymorphonuclear
neutrophils (PMNs), the first-line leukocytes in bacterial infections; moreover, 
the emergence of multidrug-resistant strains further limits treatment options. We
therefore assess whether multilineage mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), best known
for immunomodulation toward T cells, could be therapeutic for highly virulent
bacterial infections via modulation of PMNs. We find that both bone marrow MSCs
and placental MSCs (PMSCs) preserve in vitro PMN survival, but only PMSCs
significantly enhance multiple PMN bactericidal functions, including
phagocytosis, through secretion of interleukin-1β (IL-1β). PMSC treatment of
hvKP-infected mice suppresses T and natural killer (NK) cell responses as
expected but can preferentially recruit PMNs and enhance antibacterial functions 
to allow for disease survival; IL-1β knockdown in PMSCs significantly decreases
hvKP clearance, worsening survival and resulting in 100% lethality. Our data
strongly implicate the possible use of PMSCs for infections of PMN-resistant hvKP
strains.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2020.108188 
PMID: 32997996 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests The authors declare no
competing interests.

