
1. 3 Biotech. 2020 Feb;10(2):73. doi: 10.1007/s13205-020-2050-8. Epub 2020 Jan 28.

Studies on expression levels of pil Q and fli P genes during bio-electrogenic
process in Kluyvera georgiana MCC 3673.

Thapa BS(1), Chandra TS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Chennai,
Tamil Nadu 600036 India.

The bacterium Kluyvera georgiana MCC 3673 transfers electrons directly to the
electrode for bio-electricity generation in microbial fuel cell (MFC). This could
be due to the formation of biofilm on the surface of electrode or with through
the extracellular appendages, or both. The role of extracellular appendages pili 
and flagella in exo-electron transfer mechanism was investigated. The expression 
level of the genes fli P and pil Q for pili and flagella, respectively, in K.
georgiana MCC 3673 was compared in MFC and in shake flask. The transcript
analysis was done by qRT-PCR at different times and conditions. The expression
level of pil Q transcript in K. georgiana MCC 3673 showed over twofold higher
expression during bio-electrogenic process, compared to the one inoculated in
shake flask. Similarly, fli P had also showed similar kind of expression in MFC
compared to that in shake flask. Higher level of pil Q and fli P transcripts were
observed throughout bio-electrogenic process. The level of pil Q was found to be 
nearly fourfold higher in biofilm-forming cells forming compared to the cells in 
suspension form. The obtained results suggest that flagella have a role in
movement of bacterium towards electrode for donating the electron in absence of
oxygen, and pili aiding in adhering on the surface of electrode and forming
biofilm. The cumulative effect of fli P and pil Q resulted in exo-electron
transfer to the electrode and bio-electricity generation process. The open
circuit potential (OCV) of + 0.7 V was produced with the maximum power density of
393 ± 14 mW/m2 in MFC.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-020-2050-8 
PMCID: PMC6987287 [Available on 2021-02-01]
PMID: 32051806 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that they
have no conflict of interest.

