
1. Front Chem. 2020 Aug 21;8:699. doi: 10.3389/fchem.2020.00699. eCollection 2020.

Formulation of Mesoporous Silica Nanoparticles for Controlled Release of
Antimicrobials for Stone Preventive Conservation.

Presentato A(1), Armetta F(1), Spinella A(2), Chillura Martino DF(1)(2), Alduina 
R(1), Saladino ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological, Chemical, and Pharmaceutical Sciences and Technology
(STEBICEF), University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy.
(2)Advanced Technologies Network (ATeN) Center, University of Palermo, Palermo,
Italy.

The biotic deterioration of artifacts of archaeological and artistic interest
mostly relies on the action of microorganisms capable of thriving under the most 
disparate environmental conditions. Thus, to attenuate biodeterioration
phenomena, biocides can be used by the restorers to prevent or slow down the
microbial growth. However, several factors such as biocide half-life, its
wash-out because of environmental conditions, and its limited time of action make
necessary its application repeatedly, leading to negative economic implications. 
Sound and successful treatments are represented by controlled release systems
(CRSs) based on porous materials. Here, we report on the design and development
of a CRS system based on mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSNs), as a carrier,
and loaded with a biocide. MSNs, with a diameter of 55 nm and cylindrical pores
of ca. 3-8 nm arranged as parallel arrays concerning the NP diameter, and with
422 m2/g of specific surface area were synthesized by the sol-gel method assisted
by oil in water emulsion. Biocide loading and release were carried out in water
and monitored by UV-Vis Spectroscopy; in addition, microbiological assay was
performed using as control the MCM-41 mesoporous silica loaded with the same
biocide. The role of specific supramolecular interaction in regulating the
release is discussed. Further, we demonstrated that this innovative formulation
was useful in inhibiting the in vitro growth of Kocuria rhizophila, an
environmental Gram-positive bacterial strain. Besides, the CRS here prepared
reduced the bacterial biomass contaminating a real case study (i.e., stone
derived from the Santa Margherita cave located in Sicily, Italy), after several
months of treatment thus opening for innovative treatments of deteriorated stone 
artifacts.

Copyright Â© 2020 Presentato, Armetta, Spinella, Chillura Martino, Alduina and
Saladino.

DOI: 10.3389/fchem.2020.00699 
PMCID: PMC7471835
PMID: 32974275 

