
1. Cornea. 2020 Aug;39(8):957-960. doi: 10.1097/ICO.0000000000002313.

Clinical Features and Outcomes of Kocuria Keratitis and Comparison With
Coagulase-Negative Staphylococci Keratitis.

Kate A(1), Bagga B(1), Joseph J(2), Mohamed A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cornea and Anterior Segment Services, LV Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad,
India.
(2)Jhaveri Microbiology Centre, LV Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad, India.
(3)Ophthalmic Biophysics, LV Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad, India.

PURPOSE: To describe the clinical features and outcomes of Kocuria keratitis and 
to compare the same with those of Coagulase-negative Staphylococcal (CoNS)
keratitis.
METHODS: Medical records of cases with microbiologically proven Kocuria
keratitis, seen from January 2011 to December 2017 were reviewed. The data
related to predisposing factors, clinical characteristics, antibiotic
susceptibility, and the treatment and their outcomes were collected. These
parameters were also compared with those of consecutive patients with CoNS
keratitis.
RESULTS: Medical records of 23 patients (n = 23 eyes) with Kocuria keratitis were
reviewed, and after exclusion of 6 mixed infections, 17 cases with only Kocuria
infection were analysed. The median visual acuity at presentation was finger
counting 0.5 m [LogMAR 2.00 (1.70-2.70)]. The ulcer was characterized by a
central infiltrate (88.2%) involving the anterior stroma (58.8%) with an
associated hypopyon (29.4%). Kocuria rosea was the most common species (47.8%).
Ninety percent of the isolates identified were susceptible to vancomycin and
ofloxacin. In 12 cases (70.6%), the ulcer resolved with the use of topical
antibiotics alone in 52 (29-79) days, whereas 3 eyes were subjected to
therapeutic penetrating keratoplasty. On comparing the 44 cases of CoNS
keratitis, the demographics and the visual acuity at presentation were
comparable. Both groups had a similar in presentation response with medical
therapy (P, 0.48) and those requiring surgical intervention (P, 0.76).
CONCLUSION: Kocuria is a rare but potential cause of keratitis manifesting in the
presence of a compromised ocular surface. Similar to CoNS, it has good clinical
response with medical management.

DOI: 10.1097/ICO.0000000000002313 
PMID: 32243425 

