
1. J Med Microbiol. 2019 Nov;68(11):1596-1603. doi: 10.1099/jmm.0.001023.

Kocuria kristinae: an emerging pathogen in medical practice.

Napolitani M(1), Troiano G(1), Bedogni C(2), Messina G(3)(1), Nante N(3)(1).

Author information: 
(1)Post Graduate School of Public Health, University of Siena, Siena, Italy.
(2)Medical and General Management, S. Croce e Carle Hospital, Cuneo, Italy.
(3)Department of Molecular and Developmental Medicine, University of Siena,
Siena, Italy.

Introduction. Kocuria kristinae is becoming a growing public health challenge,
especially for its ability to cause infections in immunocompromised patients.
This bacterium is a Gram+coccus, catalase+, coagulase, and it is a common
inhabitant of skin and oral mucosa.Aim. To investigate the spectrum of infections
caused by K. K ristinae.Methodology. Between January-March 2018, we carried out a
systematic search in PubMed utilizing the key search term 'Kocuria kristinae'.
The selection criteria for studies were studies reporting cases of human
infections due to K. kristinae, case-control and cohort studies and studies
published in English or Spanish.Results.ï»¿ The literature search yielded 48
publications: after title, abstract and full-text analysis, 20 papers were
consistent with the selection criteria. These studies were carried out in the
period 2001-2017 in the USA, Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Ukraine, Egypt, Bahrain,
Serbia, India, Italy, Spain, Turkey and Mexico. K. kristinae was involved in 17
cases of central venous catheter-related bacteremia, four infective endocarditis,
three acute peritonitis, one abdominal abscess, umbilical sepsis, acute
cholecystitis and urinary tract infection. Additionally, K. kristinae was found
in 40 % of carious cavities, although it is not clear whether they are directly
involved in the development of caries. Antibiotic susceptibility testing has
sometimes revealed multi-drug resistance.Conclusions. The clinical spectrum of K.
kristinae infections has recently widened. The increasing spread of this
underestimated bacterium and its resistance to antibiotics represent a new
challenge for public health, which requires specific actions to limit it.

DOI: 10.1099/jmm.0.001023 
PMID: 31526454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

