
1. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2020 Oct;71(4):351-358. doi: 10.1111/lam.13353. Epub 2020
Jul 28.

Microbial contamination of tattoo and permanent makeup inks marketed in the US: a
follow-up study.

Nho SW(1), Kim M(1), Kweon O(1), Kim SJ(1), Moon MS(2), Periz G(2), Huang MJ(2), 
Dewan K(2), Sadrieh NK(2), Cerniglia CE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Microbiology, National Center for Toxicological Research, U.S.
FDA, Jefferson, AK, USA.
(2)Office of Cosmetics and Colors, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, 
U.S. FDA, College Park, MD, USA.

In a 2018 survey, U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) identified microbial
contamination in 42 (49%) of 85 unopened tattoo and permanent makeup (PMU) inks
purchased from 13 manufacturers in the US between November 2015 and April 2016.
To confirm the results of our previous survey, we evaluated the level of
microbial contamination in an additional 27 samples from 10 manufacturers from
September 2017 to December 2017, including 21 unopened tattoo and PMU inks which 
were selected based on our previous survey results and 6 ink diluents that were
not previously analysed. Aerobic plate count and enrichment culture methods from 
the FDA's Bacteriological Analytical Manual revealed 11 (52%) out of 21 inks,
from six manufacturers, were contaminated with micro-organisms, with
contamination levels up to 3·6 × 108  CFU per gram, consistent with our previous 
survey results. We identified 25 bacterial strains belonging to nine genera and
19 species. Strains of Bacillus sp. (11 strains, 44%) were dominant, followed by 
Paenibacillus sp. (5 strains, 20%). Clinically relevant strains, such as Kocuria 
rhizophila and Oligella ureolytica, were also identified, as similar to the
findings in our previous survey. No microbial contamination was detected in any
of the six ink diluents.

© 2020 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.13353 
PMID: 32654157 

