
1. Free Radic Res. 2020 Mar;54(2-3):150-161. doi: 10.1080/10715762.2020.1725499.
Epub 2020 Feb 12.

The discovery of antioxidants in marine microorganisms and their protective
effects on the hepatic cells from chemical-induced oxidative stress.

Tripathi VC(1), Horam S(1), Singh A(1), Lata M(1), Reddy TJ(2), Arockiaraj J(3), 
Pasupuleti M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology Division, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Central 
Drug Research Institute, Lucknow, India.
(2)Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Indian Institute of Chemical
Technology, Hyderabad, India.
(3)SRM Research Institute, SRM Institute of Science and Technology,
Kattankulathur, India.

The marine environment is emerging as a biodiversity resource for the discovery
of natural molecules or chemical scaffolds with pharmaceutical activity. Marine
microbes have a tremendous ability to sense and respond to their surroundings to 
survive in a stressful environment by producing different molecules. As oxidative
stress is directly or indirectly involved in various pathological conditions in
humans, we believe that marine-derived antioxidant molecules will have a great
prospect as a novel antioxidant molecule. We, in this work, explored the marine
microbial resources from the Gulf of Mannar, Bay of Bengal, India.
High-throughput screening of antioxidant molecule producing marine microbes has
revealed that extract from Kocuria marina CDMP 10, can effectively reduce the
DPPH free radical. Methanolic crude extract obtained by the freeze-thawing was
fractionated and purified by using activity guided purification with the help of 
reverse phase HPLC and analysed through UPLC-MS. Chemical analysis, as well as
MS-spectra, indicated that marine bacteria K. marina CDMP 10 derived antioxidant 
fraction contains the short peptides. The antioxidant activity of the three
highly hydrophobic peptides, (Ser-Ser-Gln, Phe-Glu, Asp-Ile and Leu-Glu) was
confirmed by inÂ vitro as well as a cell-based assay. These small peptide
molecules are noncytotoxic and can prevent the human cells from chemical-induced 
oxidative stress. Ser-Ser-Gln peptide demonstrated a potent free radical
scavenging activity in Hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines. This study suggests
that these short peptides from K. marina CDMP 10 may serve as a potential
pharmaceutical candidate with antioxidant activity.

DOI: 10.1080/10715762.2020.1725499 
PMID: 32013646 

