
1. Arch Microbiol. 2019 Nov;201(9):1285-1293. doi: 10.1007/s00203-019-01692-2. Epub 
2019 Jun 29.

An endophytic Kocuria palustris strain harboring multiple arsenate reductase
genes.

Zacaria Vital T(1), Román-Ponce B(1)(2), Rivera Orduña FN(1), Estrada de Los
Santos P(1), Vásquez-Murrieta MS(1), Deng Y(3), Yuan HL(3), Wang ET(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiología, Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biológicas,
Instituto Politécnico Nacional, C.P. 11340, Mexico City, Mexico.
(2)Departamento de Microbiología y Genética, Edificio Departamental, Lab. 214,
Campus Miguel de Unamuno, Universidad de Salamanca, 37007, Salamanca, Spain.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Agrobiotechnology, College of Biological Sciences and 
Rhizobium Research Center, China Agricultural University, Beijing, 100193, China.
(4)Departamento de Microbiología, Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biológicas,
Instituto Politécnico Nacional, C.P. 11340, Mexico City, Mexico.
entaowang@yahoo.com.mx.

Aiming at revealing the arsenic (As) resistance of the endophytic Kocuria strains
isolated from roots and stems of Sphaeralcea angustifolia grown at mine tailing, 
four strains belonging to different clades of Kocuria based upon the phylogeny of
16S rRNA genes were screened for minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC). Only the
strain NE1RL3 was defined as an As-resistant bacterium with MICs of
14.4/0.0125 mM and 300/20.0 mM for As3+ and As5+, respectively, in LB/mineral
media. This strain was identified as K. palustris based upon analyses of cellular
chemical compositions (cellular fatty acids, isoprenoides, quinones, and sugars),
patterns of carbon source, average nucleotide identity of genome and digital
DNA-DNA relatedness. Six genes coding to enzymes or proteins for arsenate
reduction and arsenite-bumping were detected in the genome, demonstrating that
this strain is resistant to As possibly by reducing As5+ to As3+, and then
bumping As3+ out of the cell. However, this estimation was not confirmed since no
arsenate reduction was detected in a subsequent assay. This study reported for
the first time the presence of phylogenetically distinct arsenate reductase
genes in a Kocuria strain and evidenced the possible horizontal transfer of these
genes among the endophytic bacteria.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-019-01692-2 
PMID: 31256199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

