
1. J Gen Appl Microbiol. 2020 Jul 17. doi: 10.2323/jgam.2019.12.001. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Isolation of endophytic bacteria from Rehmannia glutinosa Libosch and their
potential to promote plant growth.

Wang S(1), Ji B(2), Su X(2), Li H(2), Dong C(2), Chen S(2), Zhu Y(2), Feng W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacy College, Henan University of Chinese Medicine.
(2)Pharmacy College, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, Co-construction
Collaborative Innovation Center for Chinese Medicine and Respiratory Diseases by 
Henan & Education Ministry of P.R. China.

In order to study the growth promoting potential of endophytic bacteria from
Rehmannia glutinosa Libosch, a total of 25 different bacteria belonging to 7
genera were identified by 16S rRNA gene sequencing, including Bacillus,
Micrococcus, Lysinibacillus, Brevibacterium, Halomonas, Kocuria and
Terribacillus. In this study, thirteen bacterial strains were found to solubilize
inorganic phosphate, with the isolate Kocuria rosea (EH15) having the highest
phosphorus dissolution activity (3.70 Î¼g/mL). Twelve isolates were positive for
nitrogen fixation abilities. Twenty-two strains produced indole-3-acetic acid
(IAA) in the presence of L-tryptophan, and eleven of the twenty-two isolates
synthesized IAA in the absence of L-tryptophan. The strain K. rosea (EH15) was
capable of producing the highest IAA amount (15.36 and 7.98 mg/L) in Luria
Bertani (LB) broth containing 0.2% L-tryptophan and lacking L-tryptophan,
respectively. Ten isolates had siderophore production abilities with Bacillus
amyloliquefacieus EH10 (0.26) and Brevibacterium frigoritolerans EH13 (0.32)
showing high siderophore production characteristics. Five bacteria endogenous
were selected to evaluate the growth parameters of Brassica napus L. and all
isolates exhibited a significantly greater increase in seedling height, root
length, fresh weight and dry weight, than the control plants. The greatest
improvement appeared in the case of co-inoculation of EH10 and EH15, except in
dry weight, and the biggest enhancement in dry weight occurred in the strain
EH15. In general, these endophytic bacteria indicate a potential as microbial
fertilizers to promote the growth of R. glutinosa Libosch.

DOI: 10.2323/jgam.2019.12.001 
PMID: 32684536 

