
1. Mater Sci Eng C Mater Biol Appl. 2020 Dec;117:111292. doi:
10.1016/j.msec.2020.111292. Epub 2020 Jul 24.

Microbial cell lysate supernatant (CLS) alteration impact on platinum
nanoparticles fabrication, characterization, antioxidant and antibacterial
activity.

Eramabadi P(1), Masoudi M(1), Makhdoumi A(2), Mashreghi M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad,
Mashhad 9177948974, Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad,
Mashhad 9177948974, Iran. Electronic address: a.makhdomi@um.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad,
Mashhad 9177948974, Iran; Industrial Microbiology Research Group, Institute of
Biotechnology, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, Mashhad 9177948974, Iran; Nano
Research Center, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, Mashhad 9177948974, Iran.
Electronic address: mashrghi@um.ac.ir.

Microbial mediated biological synthesis of nanoparticles is of enormous interest 
to modern nanotechnology due to its simplicity and eco-friendliness. In the
present study, a novel green method for the synthesis of platinum nanoparticles
(PtNPs) has been developed using bio-derived product-cell lysate supernatant
(CLS) from various microorganisms including Gram-negative bacteria: Pseudomonas
kunmingensis ADR19, Psychrobacter faecalis FZC6, Vibrio fischeri NRRL B-11177,
Gram-positive bacteria: Jeotgalicoccus coquinae ZC15, Sporosarcina psychrophila
KC19, Kocuria rosea MN23, genetically engineered bacterium: Pseudomonas putida
KT2440 and yeast: Rhodotorula mucilaginosa CCV1. The biogenic PtNPs were
characterized by UV-visible spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier
transform infrared (FTIR), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), high
resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM), and atomic force microscopy 
(AFM). The UV-visible spectra showed a red shift in the absorbance of
H2PtCl6.6H2O from 260 nm to 330 nm for all prepared PtNPs. The XRD patterns of
the samples indicated the formation of high purity of the cubic phase. The FTIR
spectra and EDS profiles of the samples demonstrated the existence of proteins on
fabricated and stabilized PtNPs. The TEM and AFM images analysis showed the
synthesis of smallest PtNPs by a bacterium strain (FZC6) and yeast while
genetically engineered bacteria produced the largest NPs. Also, the HRTEM
analysis showed the high crystallinity of PtNPs and the interplanar spacing of
0.2 nm, corresponds to the (1 1 1) of plane of PtNPs. The results of zeta
potential indicated the high stability of PtNPs in neutral pH. Moreover, the
suitability of PtNPs antioxidant and antibacterial activity was correlated to the
size and zeta potential of microbe used for NPs biosynthesis. In conclusion, it
was found that the type of microorganisms can have influences on PtNPs
characteristics and properties as Gram-negatives produced smaller PtNPs while
more negatively charged NPs were obtained by Gram-positives. These findings could
facilitate the selection of appropriate green approaches for more effective
biotechnological production of PtNPs.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msec.2020.111292 
PMID: 32919653 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest We wish to
confirm that there are no known conflicts of interest associated with this
publication and there has been no significant financial support for this work
that could have influenced its outcome.

