
1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Feb 20;704:135325. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.135325. 
Epub 2019 Nov 24.

Enhanced biodegradation of styrene vapors in the biotrickling filter inoculated
with biosurfactant-generating bacteria under H2O2 stimulation.

Rezaei M(1), Moussavi G(2), Naddafi K(3), Johnson MS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Health Engineering, Faculty of Medical Sciences,
Tarbiat Modares University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Environmental Health Engineering, Faculty of Medical Sciences,
Tarbiat Modares University, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address:
moussavi@modares.ac.ir.
(3)Department of Environmental Health Engineering, School of Public Health,
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Copenhagen, Universitetsparken 5,
DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø, Denmark.

Biotrickling filters (BTFs) applied to hydrophobic volatile organic compounds
(VOCs) suffer from limited mass transfer. Phase transfer kinetic and equilibrium 
effects limit the biodegradation of hydrophobic VOCs especially at high
concentrations. This study evaluates two strategies for overcoming the problem.
First, a natural process was used to enhance the aqueous availability of styrene,
a hydrophobic VOC model, by inoculating the BTF with a mixture of
biosurfactant-generating bacteria. This method achieved a maximum elimination
capacity (ECmax) of 139 g m-3h-1 in the BTF at an empty bed residence time (EBRT)
of 60s. The highest concentrations of the biosurfactants surfactin and
rhamnolipid were 205 and 86 mg L-1, respectively, in this step. Sequencing 16S
rRNA confirmed the presence of biosurfactant-producing bacteria capable of
biodegrading styrene in the BTF including Bacillus sonorensis, Bacillus subtilis,
Lysinibacillus sphaericus, Lysinibacillus fusiformis, Alcaligenes feacalis,
Arthrobacter creatinolyticus, and Kocuria rosea. Second, the effect of adding
H2O2 to the recycle liquid on the BTF performance was determined. The
biodegradation and mineralization of styrene in the BTF operated at a loading
rate of 266 g m-3h-1 and H2O2/styrene molar ratio of 0.05 with EBRT as short as
15 s were 94% and 53%, respectively, with the EC of 250 g m-3h-1. High
concentrations of antioxidant enzymes (peroxidase and catalase: 56 and 7 U
gbiomass-1, respectively) were produced and biosurfactant generation was
increased in this step, contributing to enhanced styrene biodegradation and
mineralization. The styrene biodegradation and mineralization values in the BTF
in the last day operated under similar conditions but without H2O2 were 11.4% and
5.3%, respectively. The bacterial population had no considerable change in the
BTF after adding H2O2. Accordingly, stimulating the BTF inoculated with
biosurfactant-generating bacteria with H2O2 is a promising strategy for improving
the biodegradation of hydrophobic VOCs.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.135325 
PMID: 31839317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

