
1. J Med Entomol. 2019 Oct 28;56(6):1669-1677. doi: 10.1093/jme/tjz089.

Feeding Interactions Between Microorganisms and the House Dust Mites
Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus and Dermatophagoides farinae (Astigmata:
Pyroglyphidae).

Molva V(1)(2), Nesvorna M(1), Hubert J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Crop Research Institute, Drnovska, Prague, Czechia.
(2)Charles University, Faculty of Science, Department of Parasitology, Vinicna,
Prague, Czechia.

The feeding interactions between house dust mites (HDM) and microorganisms are
key factors in the survival of mites in human environments. The suitability of
different microbes for HDM is not known. Here, microbial species isolated from
HDM cultures were offered to HDM in food preference tests under laboratory
conditions. The microbial species were added to the rearing diet of mites to
reach 7% of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and 10% of each tested microorganism. The
suitability of each microbe-supplemented diet for Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus 
and Dermatophagoides farinae was compared in terms of mite population growth and 
mite preference in a cafeteria test. The effect of mite feeding on the
respiration of microorganisms in the diet was observed in microcosms. HDM were
able to feed and reproduce on some bacterial and fungal species, but the
suitability of microbial species differed. Increasing the yeast Sa. cerevisiae in
the diet from 7 to 17% appeared the most suitable for both mite species.
Staphylococcus spp. bacteria were preferred for D. farinae and were suitable for 
reproduction. The population growth and feeding preferences of D. pteronyssinus
and D. farinae with respect to microorganisms indicate that D. farinae can
develop on a diet with bacterial (Staphylococcus nepalensis and Staphylococcus
kloosii) additions, whereas D. pteronyssinus was successful on a diet with fungal
(Aspergillus jensenii and Aspergillus ruber) additions. The bacteria Kocuria
rhizophila and Bacillus cereus decreased population growth in D. pteronyssinus,
whereas the yeasts Hyphopichia pseudoburtonii, Hyphopichia burtonii, and Candida 
ciferrii decreased population growth in D. farinae. These results indicate that
some microorganisms are an important food source for HDM.

Â© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of
Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jme/tjz089 
PMID: 31145461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

