
1. J Photochem Photobiol B. 2020 Jul;208:111895. doi:
10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2020.111895. Epub 2020 May 13.

The strains of bioluminescent bacteria isolated from the White Sea finfishes:
genera Photobacterium, Aliivibrio, Vibrio, Shewanella, and first luminous
Kosakonia.

Burtseva O(1), Kublanovskaya A(1), Baulina O(1), Fedorenko T(1), Lobakova E(1),
Chekanov K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Faculty of Biology, Lomonosov Moscow State
University, Moscow, Russia.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, Faculty of Biology, Lomonosov Moscow State
University, Moscow, Russia; National Research Nuclear University MEPhi, Centre
for Humanities Research and Technology, Moscow, Russia. Electronic address:
chekanov@mail.bio.msu.ru.

Bioluminescence is a spectacular feature of some prokaryotes. In the present
work, we address the distribution of bioluminescence among bacteria isolated from
the White Sea finfishes. Luminous bacteria are widely distributed throughout the 
World Ocean. Many strains have been isolated and described for tropical
latitudes, while Nordic seas still remain quite a white spot in studying
bioluminescence of bacteria. We describe the strains related to the two main
genera of luminous bacteria, Photobacterium and Aliivibrio, as well as Shewanella
and Vibrio. They are related to families Vibrionaceae and Shewanellaceae of the
Gammaproteobacteria class. Here, we at the first time, report the bioluminescence
of the Enterobacteriaceae Kosakonia cowanii. Moreover, we applied the polyphasic 
approach to identify and describe the isolated microorganisms. The data on
sequencing, diversity of cell fine structure, and light emission spectra at room 
temperature on the solid medium are discussed. The bacteria are characterized by 
features in their light emission spectra. It may reflect possible molecular
mechanisms of bioluminescence as well as features of bacterial composition. The
obtained data expands the existing body of knowledge about the bioluminescence
spread among the bacteria of Nordic latitudes and provides complex information
that is crucial for their precise identification.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2020.111895 
PMID: 32447192 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

