
1. J Biotechnol. 2020 Jan 20;308:21-26. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2019.11.012. Epub
2019 Nov 20.

Highly enantioselective resolution of racemic 1-phenyl-1,2-ethanediol to
(S)-1-phenyl-1,2-ethanediol by Kurthia gibsonii SC0312 in a biphasic system.

Peng F(1), Zhao Y(1), Li FZ(1), Ou XY(1), Zeng YJ(1), Zong MH(1), Lou WY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Applied Biocatalysis, School of Food Science and Engineering,
South China University of Technology, Guangzhou 510640, Guangdong, China.
(2)Laboratory of Applied Biocatalysis, School of Food Science and Engineering,
South China University of Technology, Guangzhou 510640, Guangdong, China.
Electronic address: wylou@scut.edu.cn.

The asymmetric resolution of racemic 1-phenyl-1,2-ethanediol (PED) to (S)-PED by 
Kurthia gibsonii SC0312 (K. gibsonii SC0312) was conducted in a biphasic system
comprised of an organic solvent and aqueous phosphate buffer. The impacts of
organic solvents on the whole cell catalytic activity, metabolic activity,
membrane integrity, and material distribution were first evaluated. The results
showed that all organic solvents, except for dibutyl phthalate, showed a
detrimental effect on the metabolic activity of the cells, especially for those
with low log P values. All organic solvents were capable of changing the membrane
permeability and membrane integrity of the cells. Moreover, some organic solvents
showed a good extraction of the oxidation product. Finally, a high yield of 47.7 
% of (S)-PED was obtained by the asymmetric resolution of racemic PED using K.
gibsonii SC0312 in a biphasic system under the optimal conditions: racemic PED
120 mM, temperature 35 °C, reaction time 6 h, 180 rpm, and a volume ratio of
dibutyl phthalate to aqueous phosphate buffer of 1:1. The optical purity of
(S)-PED increased from 51.3 % to >99 %. This work described an efficient approach
to improve reaction efficiency, and constructed a highly effective biphasic
reaction system for the fabrication of (S)-PED via K. gibsonii SC0312.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2019.11.012 
PMID: 31758968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

