
1. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2020 Feb 21;8:17. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00017.
eCollection 2020.

Immobilization of Cofactor Self-Sufficient Recombinant Escherichia coli for
Enantioselective Biosynthesis of (R)-1-Phenyl-1,2-Ethanediol.

Peng F(1), Su HH(1), Ou XY(1), Ni ZF(1), Zong MH(1), Lou WY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Applied Biocatalysis, School of Food Science and Engineering,
South China University of Technology, Guangzhou, China.

(R)-1-phenyl-1,2-ethanediol is an important synthon for the preparation of
β-adrenergic blocking agents. This study identified a (2R,3R)-butanediol
dehydrogenase (KgBDH) from Kurthia gibsonii SC0312, which showed high
enantioselectivity for production of (R)-1-phenyl-1,2-ethanediol by reduction of 
2-hydroxyacetophenone. KgBDH was expressed in a recombinant engineered strain,
purified, and characterized. It showed good catalytic activity at pH 6-8 and
better stability in alkaline (pH 7.5-8) than an acidic environment (pH 6.0-7.0), 
providing approximately 73 and 88% of residual activity after 96 h at pH 7.5 and 
8.0, respectively. The maximum catalytic activity was obtained at 45°C;
nevertheless, poor thermal stability was observed at >30°C. Additionally, the
examined metal ions did not activate the catalytic activity of KgBDH. A
recombinant Escherichia coli strain coexpressing KgBDH and glucose dehydrogenase 
(GHD) was constructed and immobilized via entrapment with a mixture of activated 
carbon and calcium alginate via entrapment. The immobilized cells had 1.8-fold
higher catalytic activity than that of cells immobilized by calcium alginate
alone. The maximum catalytic activity of the immobilized cells was achieved at pH
7.5, and favorable pH stability was observed at pH 6.0-9.0. Moreover, the
immobilized cells showed favorable thermal stability at 25-30°C and better
operational stability than free cells, retaining approximately 55% of the initial
catalytic activity after four cycles. Finally, 81% yields (195 mM product) and
>99% enantiomeric excess (ee) of (R)-1-phenyl-1,2-ethanediol were produced within
12 h through a fed-batch strategy with the immobilized cells (25 mg/ml wet cells)
at 35°C and 180 rpm, with a productivity of approximately 54 g/L per day.

Copyright © 2020 Peng, Su, Ou, Ni, Zong and Lou.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00017 
PMCID: PMC7046757
PMID: 32154222 

