
1. J Infect Chemother. 2020 Mar;26(3):318-319. doi: 10.1016/j.jiac.2019.10.019. Epub
2019 Dec 9.

Half of 'Micrococcus spp.' cases identified by conventional methods are revealed 
as other life-threatening bacteria with different drug susceptibility patterns by
16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing.

Noguchi K(1), Nishimura R(2), Ikawa Y(1), Mase S(1), Matsuda Y(1), Fujiki T(1),
Kuroda R(1), Araki R(1), Maeba H(1), Yachie A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Kanazawa University, Kanazawa, Japan.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Kanazawa University, Kanazawa, Japan. Electronic
address: ryosein@me.com.

Bacterial infection during chemotherapy is a fatal complication, therefore
precise identification of the pathogenic microorganism is required for treatment.
We report that 2 of 4 pediatric patients with malignancy who were diagnosed with 
Micrococcus spp. infection by conventional methods were finally revealed to have 
Kytococcus schroeteri and Kocuria marina infection by 16S ribosomal RNA gene
sequence analysis (16S rRNA analysis). Although K. schroeteri is morphologically 
similar to Micrococcus spp., its drug susceptibility profile is quite different
from that of Micrococcus spp. K. schroeteri is resistant to penicillin and
cephalosporin, which are effective for Micrococcus spp. In fact,
penicillin-resistant lethal pneumonia caused by K. schroeteri has been reported
in compromised hosts. Based on our results, Micrococcus spp. determined by
conventional methods could contain other life-threatening bacteria with different
drug susceptibility patterns from Micrococcus spp. To develop an effective
empirical treatment for immunocompromised hosts, accumulation of pathogen data by
16S rRNA analysis is required.

Copyright © 2019 Japanese Society of Chemotherapy and The Japanese Association
for Infectious Diseases. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jiac.2019.10.019 
PMID: 31822450 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.

