
1. Food Sci Anim Resour. 2020 Jul;40(4):541-550. doi: 10.5851/kosfa.2020.e31. Epub
2020 Jul 1.

A Non-yeast Kefir-like Fermented Milk Development with Lactobacillus acidophilus 
KCNU and Lactobacillus brevis Bmb6.

Lee B(1)(2), Yong CC(3), Yi HC(1), Kim S(2), Oh S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Samik Dairy & Food Co. Ltd, Seoul 06195, Korea.
(2)College of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul 02841,
Korea.
(3)Division of Animal Science, Chonnam National University, Gwangju 61186, Korea.

The use of yeast assist kefir fermentation, but also can cause food spoilage if
uncontrolled. Hence, in this study, the microbial composition of an existing
commercial kefir starter was modified to produce a functional starter, where
Lactobacillus acidophilus KCNU and Lactobacillus brevis Bmb6 were used to replace
yeast in the original starter to produce non-yeast kefir-like fermented milk. The
functional starter containing L. acidophilus KCNU and L. brevis Bmb6 demonstrated
excellent stability with 1010 CFU/g of total viable cells throughout the 12 weeks
low-temperature storage. The newly developed functional starter also displayed a 
similar fermentation efficacy as the yeast-containing control starter, by
completing the milk fermentation within 12 h, with a comparable total number of
viable cells (108 CFU/mL) in the final products, as in control. Sensory
evaluation revealed that the functional starter-fermented milk highly resembled
the flavor of the control kefir, with enhanced sourness. Furthermore, oral
administration of functional starter-fermented milk significantly improved the
disease activity index score by preventing drastic weight-loss and further
deterioration of disease symptoms in DSS-induced mice. Altogether, L. acidophilus
KCNU and L. brevis Bmb6 have successfully replaced yeast in a commercial starter 
pack to produce a kefir-like fermented milk beverage with additional health
benefits. The outcome of this study provides an insight that the specific role of
yeast in the fermentation process could be replaced with suitable probiotic
candidates.

Â© Korean Society for Food Science of Animal Resources.

DOI: 10.5851/kosfa.2020.e31 
PMCID: PMC7372993
PMID: 32734262 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no potential conflicts of
interest.

