
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 May 12;11:904. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00904. eCollection
2020.

Diversity of Lactobacillus Species of Stilton Cheese Relates to Site of
Isolation.

Mugampoza D(1)(2), Gkatzionis K(1)(3), Swift BMC(1)(4), Rees CED(1), Dodd CER(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biosciences, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Food Technology, Kyambogo University, Kampala, Uganda.
(3)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, School of the Environment,
University of the Aegean, Lemnos, Greece.
(4)Pathobiology and Population Sciences, Royal Veterinary College, Hertfordshire,
United Kingdom.

This study has characterized the dominant non-starter Lactobacillus species
isolated from different sites in a Stilton cheese to establish its diversity,
stress-tolerance, anti-microbial activity and potential contribution to quality
of cheese. Fifty-nine Lactobacillus isolates were cultured from the outer crust, 
blue veins and white core of the cheese and were speciated phenotypically and by 
16S rDNA sequence analysis. Lactobacillus plantarum was the dominant species
detected with only two isolates identified as Lactobacillus brevis. Strains were 
typed by pulse-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) using the enzyme NotI to examine 
their genomic diversity. Cluster analysis of PFGE patterns produced five major
clusters which associated isolates with their sites of isolation within the
cheese. One L. plantarum isolate from each cheese site was selected and evaluated
for salt, acid, relative humidity, and heat tolerance to determine whether stress
conditions within the isolation site selected their phenotype. D 72°C values were
6, 13, and 17 s for strains from the crust, veins and core, respectively,
suggesting strains on the crust may not have been able to survive pasteurization 
and therefore had been added post-pasteurization. All strains recovered from heat
injury within 24-48 h at 4°C. pH values of 3, 3.5, and 4 suppressed growth but
strains showed a varying ability to grow at pH 4.5 and 5; isolates from the core 
(which has the lowest pH) were the most acid-tolerant. All strains grew at 3.5
and 5% salt but were suppressed at 10%; those from the crust (which has a lower
water activity) were the most halo-tolerant, growing at 8% salt whereas strains
from the core were sensitive to this salt concentration. All 57 L. plantarum
isolates were examined for antimicrobial activity and variable activity against
Lactobacillus pentosus and other genera was demonstrated; plantaricin EF genes
were present in 65% of strains. It was concluded that there are varied phenotypes
and genotypes of Lactobacillus in a Stilton cheese according to site of
isolation. Occurrence of different L. plantarum genotypes could contribute to
variation in the cheese quality from batch to batch and provides criteria for
selecting isolates as potential adjunct cultures.

Copyright © 2020 Mugampoza, Gkatzionis, Swift, Rees and Dodd.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00904 
PMCID: PMC7236593
PMID: 32477308 

