
1. Heliyon. 2020 Jul 4;6(7):e04328. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e04328. eCollection 
2020 Jul.

Consumer perception and sensory profile of probiotic yogurt with added sugar and 
reduced milk fat.

Dias PGI(1), Sajiwani JWA(1), Rathnayaka RMUSK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Faculty of Applied Sciences,
Sabaragamuwa University of Sri Lanka, P. O. Box 02, Belihuloya, Sri Lanka.

The objective of this study was to determine the effect of different milk fat
(MF, 0%, 1.5%, 3.3% (w/w)) or added sugar (AS, 0%, 3.5%, 7% (w/w)) levels on the 
sensory properties and consumer acceptability of probiotic set yogurts fermented 
by Streptococcus thermophilus, Bifidobacterium bifidum, and Lactobacillus
delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus. The experimental yoghurt samples were compared
with a control containing AS, 7% and MF, 3.3%. A quantitative descriptive
analysis was conducted using 12 semi-trained panelists to evaluate the sensory
profile of yogurts by rating the intensity of sensory descriptors on a 10 unit
scale. Consumer preferences was determined using a group untrained individuals (n
= 31) by applying the hedonic test for preference. Sensory mapping and Principal 
Component Analysis (PCA) were conducted to obtain a comprehensive understanding
of the consumer behavior. Partial Least Squares Regression (PLSR) was conducted
to compare the sensory profiling, consumer preference and instrumental data.
Descriptive data showed significant differences (p < 0.05) among the samples for 
8 of the 15 attributes amalyzed, including flavor and texture parameters. PCA
showed that more than 80% of consumers highly preferred the low-fat yogurt,
basically due to its firmness. Overall, consumer preference decreases with the AS
reduction. The sample containing zero sugar is the least preferred sample. The
reduction of added sugar below 3.5% is a challenge in terms of retaining product 
quality.

Â© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e04328 
PMCID: PMC7339062
PMID: 32671253 

