
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Oct;147:104368. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104368. Epub 2020
Jul 4.

Emerging bacterial fish pathogen Lactococcus garvieae RTCLI04, isolated from
rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss): Genomic features and comparative genomics.

Shahi N(1), Mallik SK(2).

Author information: 
(1)ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research, Bhimtal, 263 136, Nainital, 
Uttarakhand, India. Electronic address: Neetu.Shahi@icar.gov.in.
(2)ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research, Bhimtal, 263 136, Nainital, 
Uttarakhand, India.

Lactococcus garvieae is one of the emerging zoonotic bacterial pathogen, causes
fatal hemorrhagic septicemia in cultured fish species, animals and humans,
worldwide. Here, we report the genomic features of whole-genome sequence (WGS) of
L. garvieae strain RTCLI04, recovered from lower intestine of farmed rainbow
trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss in the northwest Himalayan region India. The genome of
L. garvieae RTCLI04 is a single circular chromosome of 2,054,885 base pairs (bp),
which encodes 1993 proteins and has G + C content of 39%. The bioinformatics
analysis of WGS of RTCLI04, confirmed the presence of 51 tRNAs genes (including
two pseudogenes), six rRNAs genes (four genes for 5S rRNA; one gene for 16S rRNA 
and one gene for 23S rRNA), five virulent domains, and twenty eight different
genetic pathways. A Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats
(CRISPR) finder tool indicates that three different CRISPR and one cas system
with common spacer was present in the genome of L. garvieae RTCLI04. Pan-genome
analysis of RTCLI04 and all the other reference L. garvieae strains shows that
pan-genome of this bacterium consisted of 2239 putative protein-coding genes in
which 1850 genes are core gene, 389 genes are dispensable gene, and 221 genes are
unique to RTCLI04. L. garvieae RTCLI04 lacks genomic island of 16.5 Kb capsule
gene cluster. In addition, 39 virulence-associated genes (VAGs) including
hly1,-2,-3; PavA, PsaA; eno; LPxTG containing surface proteins 1, 2, 3 and 4;
pgm, sod and 29 antimicrobial resistant genes (ARGs) including mefE
(clindamycin), srmB (lincomycin), dfrA26 (trimethoprim), gyrB (nalidixic acid),
arr-3 (rifampin), otrB (tetracycline), aac(6)-Ic (tobramycin), IrgB (penicillin),
mecA (oxacillin), vanRB (vancomycin) and mfpA (fluoroquinolone) were also
predicted in the genome of L. garvieae RTCLI04. Our study provides new insight
into understanding the virulence mechanism, antimicrobial resistance, and
development of effective therapeutic measures against L. garvieae during a
disease outbreak in aquaculture.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104368 
PMID: 32634612 

