
1. Anim Nutr. 2020 Sep;6(3):325-332. doi: 10.1016/j.aninu.2020.03.002. Epub 2020 Apr
7.

Dietary synbiotic supplementation improves the growth performance, body
antioxidant pool, serum biochemistry, meat quality, and lipid oxidative stability
in broiler chickens.

Dev K(1)(2), Mir NA(1), Biswas A(1), Kannoujia J(3), Begum J(4), Kant R(2),
Mandal A(1).

Author information: 
(1)ICAR-Central Avian Research Institute, Izatnagar, Bareilly 243122, India.
(2)Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences, Allahabad
211007, India.
(3)CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad 500007, India.
(4)G.B. Pant University of Agriculture & Technology, College of Veterinary &
Animal Sciences, Pantnagar 263145, India.

The present study investigated the effects of Lactobacillus acidophilus (LBA) and
mannan-oligosaccharides (MOS) supplementation on the production performance,
serum biochemistry, antioxidant profile, health indices, meat quality, and lipid 
oxidative stability of broiler chicken. A total of 252 commercial broiler
chickens at 1 d old of uniform body weight were randomly allocated to 6
maize-soybean-based dietary treatments: T1 (control diet), T2 ( antibiotic
bacitracin methylene di-salicylate [BMD] at 20 mg/kg diet), T3 (MOS at 0.1% + LBA
at 106 CFU/g feed), T4 (MOS at 0.1% + LBA at 107 CFU/g feed), T5 (MOS at 0.2%
+ LBA at 106 CFU/g feed), and T6 (MOS at 0.2% + LBA at 107 CFU/g feed). Each
treatment was assigned to 6 replicates of 7 birds. The samples for meat quality
and serum biochemistry analysis were taken from 12 birds per treatment (2
birds/replicate). The results revealed better (P < 0.01) growth performance and
production efficiency of birds fed either T5 or T6 diet compared to control or
BMD supplemented diet and BMD-supplemented birds superseded the control birds.
Higher (P < 0.01) serum and liver antioxidant enzyme activities, meat antioxidant
capacity (2, 2-azinobis-3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid [ABTS] and 1,
1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl [DPPH] assays], serum total protein, high-density
lipoproteins (HDL) cholesterol (P < 0.05), and globulin levels (P < 0.01) were
observed in birds fed either T5 or T6 diet compared to control or BMD
supplemented birds, whereas, lower lipid oxidation (P < 0.01), cardiac risk
ratio, atherogenic coefficient, atherogenic index of plasma, serum glucose,
triglyceride, total cholesterol levels (P < 0.01), and serum albumin-to-globulin 
ratio (P < 0.05) were observed in the chickens. The pH of meat from birds fed T4,
T5 or T6 diet was lower (P < 0.01) compared to control and other treatments. The 
extract release volume (ERV), water holding capacity (WHC), and protein content
of meat were higher (P < 0.05) in birds fed either T5 or T6 diet compared to
control or BMD supplemented birds. Thus, it was concluded that the
supplementation of 0.2% MOS along with LBA at 106 CFU/g is optimum for better
growth performance, serum biochemistry, antioxidant profile, health indices, meat
quality, and lipid oxidative stability of broiler chickens.

© 2020 Chinese Association of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine. Production 
and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aninu.2020.03.002 
PMCID: PMC7503080
PMID: 33005766 

