
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jul 22;8(8). pii: E1095. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8081095.

Survival of Lactobacillus salivarius CECT 4063 and Stability of Antioxidant
Compounds in Dried Apple Snacks as Affected by the Water Activity, the Addition
of Trehalose and High Pressure Homogenization.

Burca-Busaga CG(1), Betoret N(1), Seguí L(1), Betoret E(2), Barrera C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Universitario de Ingeniería de Alimentos para el Desarrollo,
Universitat Politècnica de València, 46022 Valencia, Spain.
(2)Instituto de Agroquímica y Tecnología de Alimentos, Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Científicas, 46980 Paterna, Spain.

Survival of probiotic microorganisms in dried foods is optimal for water activity
(aw) values between 0.1 and 0.3. Encapsulating and adding low-molecular weight
additives can enhance probiotic viability in intermediate aw food products, but
the effectiveness of sub-lethal homogenization is still not proven. This study
evaluates the effect of 10% (w/w) trehalose addition and/or 100 MPa
homogenization on Lactobacillus salivarius CECT 4063 counts and antioxidant
properties of apple slices dried to different water activity values
(freeze-drying to a aw of 0.25 and air-drying at 40 °C to a aw of 0.35 and 0.45) 
during four-week storage. Optical and mechanical properties of dried samples were
also analyzed. Freeze-drying had the least effect on the microbial counts and air
drying at 40 °C to a aw of 0.35 had the greatest effect. Antioxidant properties
improved with drying, especially with convective drying. Decreases in both
microbial and antioxidant content during storage were favored in samples with
higher water activity values. Adding trehalose improved cell survival during
storage in samples with a water activity of 0.35, but 100 MPa homogenization
increased the loss of viability in all cases. Air-dried samples became more
translucent and reddish, rather rubbery and less crispy than freeze-dried ones.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8081095 
PMCID: PMC7463932
PMID: 32707848 

