
1. Front Vet Sci. 2020 Jul 17;7:415. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2020.00415. eCollection
2020.

Assessment of Probiotic Properties of Lactobacillus salivarius Isolated From
Chickens as Feed Additives.

Wang J(1), Ishfaq M(1), Guo Y(1), Chen C(1)(2), Li J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northeast Agricultural University, Harbin,
China.
(2)Heilongjiang Key Laboratory for Animal Disease Control and Pharmaceutical
Development, Harbin, China.

The continued use of sub-therapeutic antibiotics as feed additives in the poultry
industry improved health and growth performance. However, the resulting
antibiotic resistance increasingly becomes a major threat to public health.
Probiotics are promising alternatives for the antibiotics used in poultry
industry. The aim of this study was to evaluate the probiotic properties of
Lactobacillus salivarius as feed additive in chickens. White leghorn chickens
were randomly assigned to experimental groups. Effects of Lactobacillus
salivarius supplementation on growth performance, resistance to Escherichia coli 
O78 challenge and heat-stress, and immune response after vaccinated with
attenuated infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) vaccine were determined. The
results showed that Lactobacillus salivarius supplementation improved growth
performance, such as weight and longer shank length, increased relative weights
of the immune organs and decreased concentrations of odor-causing compounds. In
addition, Lactobacillus salivarius supplementation alleviated organ injury caused
by Escherichia coli O78 challenge and heat stress. Furthermore, Lactobacillus
salivarius results in enhanced immune response after IBDV vaccine immunization,
enhanced specific antibody and IFN-γ production, and lymphocyte proliferation.
Our results revealed a tremendous potential of Lactobacillus salivarius as
antibiotics' substitute in poultry production.

Copyright © 2020 Wang, Ishfaq, Guo, Chen and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2020.00415 
PMCID: PMC7379216
PMID: 32766298 

