
1. J Food Sci. 2020 Sep 16. doi: 10.1111/1750-3841.15349. [Epub ahead of print]

Co-fermentation of lentils using lactic acid bacteria and Bacillus subtilis natto
increases functional and antioxidant components.

Chen K(1)(2), Gao C(1)(2), Han X(1)(2), Li D(1)(2), Wang H(1)(2), Lu F(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Industrial Fermentation Microbiology of the Ministry of
Education, Tianjin University of Science and Technology, Tianjin, 300457, P.R.
China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Food Nutrition and Safety, Tianjin University of
Science and Technology, Tianjin, 300457, P.R. China.

We identified lentil products with both nutritional value and antioxidant
capacity by studying the changes of probiotics and functional substances during
single fermentation with lactic acid bacteria (LAB) or co-fermentation using LAB 
and Bacillus subtilis natto. After fermentation, the best growth of LAB was
observed in anaerobic solid-state co-fermentation, whereby the viable counts of
Lactobacillus plantarum TK9 and Lactobacillus paracasei TK1501 reached 2.77 × 109
and 2.78 × 109 CFU/g, respectively. Furthermore, the total phenol and genistin
content produced by the two mixed groups, respectively, increased by 0.52- and
0.66-fold, as well as 0.63- and 0.64-fold, compared with unfermented samples.
Similarly, the free amino acid content increased by 0.53- and 0.49-fold,
respectively. The 50% inhibitory concentrations for the radical-scavenging
against 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl and α-glucosidase inhibitory activity were 
lower following anaerobic co-fermentation. Consistently, products of anaerobic
mixed solid-state fermentation had higher oxygen radical absorbance capacity.
Therefore, anaerobic solid-state co-fermentation of lentils using B. subtilis
natto may promote the multiplication of LAB and enhance the antioxidant activity 
of fermented lentil products. PRACTICAL APPLICATION: Simple and efficient food
handling is more suitable for industrial production. Co-fermentation is a good
method to optimize the fermentation process. Co-culture technology has high
potential in terms of functionality and antioxidant capacity.

© 2020 Institute of Food Technologists®.

DOI: 10.1111/1750-3841.15349 
PMID: 32964467 

