
1. Food Funct. 2019 Nov 1;10(11):7063-7080. doi: 10.1039/c9fo01334b. Epub 2019 Oct
17.

Effects of theabrownin on serum metabolites and gut microbiome in rats with a
high-sugar diet.

Yue S(1), Zhao D(1), Peng C(2), Tan C(1), Wang Q(1), Gong J(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Food Science and Technology, Yunnan Agricultural University,
Heilong Tan, Kunming, Yunnan 650201, China. gong199@163.com.
(2)College of Horticulture and Landscape, Yunnan Agricultural University, Heilong
Tan, Kunming, Yunnan 650201, China.

Evidence has proven that the gut microbiota is an important environmental factor 
contributing to obesity by altering host energy harvest and storage. We performed
a high-throughput 16S rDNA sequencing association study and serum metabolomics
profiling in rats with a high-sugar diet. Our studies revealed that the high
sugar diet reduced the diversity of cecal microorganisms, while the combination
of theabrownin and the high sugar diet increased the diversity of cecal
microorganisms and promoted reproduction of Alloprevotella,
Coprostanoligenes_group, Bacteroides, Prevotellaceae_NK3B31_group, Desulfovibrio,
Intestinimonas, Alistipes, Bifidobacterium, Phascolarctobacterium,
Ruminococcaceae_UCG-010 and Staphylococcus. The combination also inhibited the
growth of Lactobacillus, Prevotellaceae_Ga6A1_group and Tyzzerella. The
Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes (F/B) ratio can be significantly reduced after the
intervention of theabrownin in high sugar diet rats, and the reproduction of
Bacteroides acidifaciens (BA) and Staphylococcus saprophyticus subsp.
saprophyticus can be promoted. We found that the obesity-associated gut microbial
species were linked to the changes in circulating metabolites. Serum levels of
deoxycholic acid, cholic acid, 1H-indole-3-acetic acid, 3-indole acrylic acid and
melatonin were negatively correlated with BA and Staphylococcus saprophyticus
subsp. saprophyticus, but positively correlated with Lactobacillus murinus,
Leptum and Gut_metagenome. 2-Hydroxy-6-methylpyridin-3-carboxylic acid,
l-homoserine, and 1,7-dimethylxanthine were positively correlated with BA and
Staphylococcus saprophyticus subsp. saprophyticus, but negatively correlated with
Lactobacillus murinus, Leptum, and Gut_metagenome. In a high sugar diet mode,
theabrownin reduced the body weight and triglycerides and improved insulin
resistance mainly by targeting the reproduction of intestinal microorganisms such
as BA, Staphylococcus saprophyticus subsp. saprophyticus, Lactobacillus murinus, 
Leptum, Gut_metagenome and so on. A strong correlation between cecal
microorganisms and serum metabolites, obesity and insulin resistance was
observed. Theabrownin has high potential in reducing the risk of cardiovascular
diseases such as diabetes and obesity.

DOI: 10.1039/c9fo01334b 
PMID: 31621728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

