
1. Microorganisms. 2019 Nov 8;7(11). pii: E540. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms7110540.

Comparison of Six Commercial Meat Starter Cultures for the Fermentation of Yellow
Mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) Paste.

An B(1), Sam C(2), Dries V(1), Ruben S(1), Christel V(2), Mik VB(1), Bart L(2),
Leen VC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Lab4Food, Department of Microbial and Molecular Systems (M2S), KU Leuven,
Campus Geel, B-2440 Geel, Belgium.
(2)Laboratory for Process Microbial Ecology and Bioinspirational Management
(PME&BIM), Department of Microbial and Molecular Systems (M2S), KU Leuven, Campus
De Nayer, B-2860 Sint-Katelijne-Waver, Belgium.

In this study, six commercial meat starters, each consisting of a pure strain of 
a lactic acid-fermenting bacterium (including Lactococcus lactis, Lactobacillus
curvatus, L. farciminis, L. plantarum, L. sakei, and Pediococcus acidilactici),
were tested for their ability to ferment a paste produced from the yellow
mealworm (Tenebrio molitor). During fermentation, microbial counts, pH, and the
bacterial community composition were determined. In addition, UPLC-MS was applied
to monitor the consumption of glucose and the production of glutamic (Glu) and
aspartic (Asp) acid. All tested starters were able to ferment the mealworm paste,
judged by a pH reduction from 6.68 to 4.60-4.95 within 72 h. Illumina amplicon
sequencing showed that all starters were able to colonize the substrate eciently.
Moreover, the introduction of the starter cultures led to the disappearance of
Bacillus and Clostridium species, which were the dominant microorganisms in
un-inoculated samples. Of the six cultures tested, Lactobacillus farciminis was
most promising as its application resulted in the largest increase (Â±25 mg/100 g 
of paste) in the content of free glutamic and aspartic acid. These amino acids
are responsible for the appreciated umami flavour in fermented food products and 
might stimulate the acceptance of insects and their consumption.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms7110540 
PMCID: PMC6920846
PMID: 31717367 

