
1. J Microbiol. 2020 Jun;58(6):445-455. doi: 10.1007/s12275-020-9596-3. Epub 2020
Mar 28.

Comparative genomics of Lactobacillus species as bee symbionts and description of
Lactobacillus bombintestini sp. nov., isolated from the gut of Bombus ignitus.

Heo J(1), Kim SJ(1), Kim JS(1), Hong SB(1), Kwon SW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Agricultural Microbiology Division, National Institute of Agricultural
Sciences, Rural Development Administration, Jeollabuk-do, 55365, Republic of
Korea.
(2)Agricultural Microbiology Division, National Institute of Agricultural
Sciences, Rural Development Administration, Jeollabuk-do, 55365, Republic of
Korea. swkwon1203@korea.kr.

The Lactobacillus genus is widely used for fermentation of plant materials and
dairy products. These species are typically found in highly specialized
environments, with the bee gut serving as one of the niche locations in which
Lactobacillus is detected. Lactobacillus species isolated from the bee gut and
bee-related habitats were phylogenetically classified into three distinct groups,
Lactobacillus kunkeei, Firm-4, and Firm-5. The L. kunkeei group was clearly
differentiated from other members of the Lactobacillus buchneri group isolated
from non-bee habitats. In comparison with non-bee members of the L. buchneri
group, three bee-symbiotic Lactobacillus groups had a small-sized genome with low
G + C content and showed a sharp reduction in the number of genes involved in
energy production, carbohydrate transport and metabolism, and amino acid
transport and metabolism. In addition, all three groups lacked the mutY gene,
which encodes A/G-specific adenine glycosylase. The phylogenetic dendrogram based
on the presence or absence of 1,199 functional genes indicated that these
bee-symbiotic groups experienced convergent evolution. The occurrence of
convergent evolution is thought to stem from the three bee-symbiotic groups
sharing a similar habitat, i.e., the bee gut. The causative factor underlying
genomic reduction was postulated to be mutY, which was absent in all three
groups. Here, a novel strain, BHWM-4T, isolated from the gut of Bombus ignites
was studied using polyphasic taxonomy and classified as a new member of the L.
kunkeei group. The strain was Gram-positive, facultative anaerobic, and
rod-shaped. The 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequence and genome analysis revealed that
strain BHWM-4T was clustered into the L. kunkeei group, forming a compact cluster
with L. kunkeei and Lactobacillus apinorum. Biochemical, chemotaxonomic, and
genotypic data of strain BHWM-4T supports the proposal of a novel species,
Lactobacillus bombintestini sp. nov., whose type strain is BHWM-4T (= KACC 19317 
= NBRC 113067T).

DOI: 10.1007/s12275-020-9596-3 
PMID: 32222941 

