
1. Sci China Life Sci. 2020 Sep 9. doi: 10.1007/s11427-019-1772-8. [Epub ahead of
print]

Lipocalin-2-induced proliferative endoplasmic reticulum stress participates in
Kawasaki disease-related pulmonary arterial abnormalities.

Shi Z(1)(2), Yin Y(2), Li C(2), Ding H(1), Mu N(2), Wang Y(2), Jin S(2), Ma H(3),
Liu M(4), Zhou J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Second Affiliated Hospital of Shaanxi University of 
Chinese Medicine, Xianyang, 712000, China.
(2)Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, School of Basic Medical
Sciences, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, 710032, China.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, School of Basic Medical
Sciences, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, 710032, China.
hengma@fmmu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, School of Basic Medical
Sciences, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, 710032, China.
apple0210vip@163.com.
(5)Department of Endocrinology, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical
University, Xi'an, 710032, China. zhoujie@fmmu.edu.cn.

Clinical cases have reported pulmonary arterial structural and functional
abnormalities in patients with Kawasaki disease (KD); however, the underlying
mechanisms are unclear. In this study, a KD rat model was established via the
intraperitoneal injection of Lactobacillus casei cell wall extract (LCWE). The
results showed that pulmonary arterial functional and structural abnormalities
were observed in KD rats. Furthermore, proliferative endoplasmic reticulum stress
(ER stress) was observed in the pulmonary arteries of KD rats. Notably, the level
of lipocalin-2 (Lcn 2), a trigger factor of inflammation, was remarkably elevated
in the plasma and lung tissues of KD rats; increased Lcn 2 levels following LCWE 
stimulation may result from polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs).
Correspondingly, in cultured pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs), Lcn 2
markedly augmented the cleavage and nuclear localization of activating
transcription factor-6 (ATF6), upregulated the transcription of glucose regulated
protein 78 (GRP78) and neurite outgrowth inhibitor (NOGO), and promoted PASMCs
proliferation. However, proapoptotic C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) and caspase 
12 levels were not elevated. Treatment with 4-phenyl butyric acid (4-PBA, a
specific inhibitor of ER stress) inhibited PASMCs proliferation induced by Lcn 2 
and attenuated pulmonary arterial abnormalities and right ventricular hypertrophy
and reduced right ventricular systolic pressure in KD rats. In conclusion, Lcn 2 
remarkably facilitates proliferative ER stress in PASMCs, which probably accounts
for KD-related pulmonary arterial abnormalities.

DOI: 10.1007/s11427-019-1772-8 
PMID: 32915407 

