
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Oct;147:104400. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104400. Epub 2020
Jul 28.

Pathogenesis and in vivo interactions of human Streptococcus agalactiae isolates 
in the Galleria mellonella invertebrate model.

Crespo-Ortiz MDP(1), Burbano ME(2), Barreto M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University del Valle, San Fernando Campus, Calle 4
B #36-00, Cali, 760043, Colombia. Electronic address:
maria.crespo.ortiz@correounivalle.edu.co.
(2)Department of Microbiology, University del Valle, San Fernando Campus, Calle 4
B #36-00, Cali, 760043, Colombia. Electronic address:
maria.e.burbano@correounivalle.edu.co.
(3)Department of Microbiology, University del Valle, San Fernando Campus, Calle 4
B #36-00, Cali, 760043, Colombia. Electronic address:
mauricio.barreto@correounivalle.edu.co.

Group B Streptococcus (GBS) is a gram positive bacterium colonizing the
gastrointestinal and urogenital tracts in humans. However under certain
conditions GBS invades leading to severe infections in neonates, pregnant women, 
immunocompromised patients and the elderly people. The precise mechanisms
involved in the transition from colonizer to pathogen remain to be elucidated,
however it has been suggested that environmental determinants may regulate gene
expression resulting in GBS invasion. We have assessed the potential of the moth 
Galleria mellonella as a model to study the in vivo virulence and GBS
interactions of invasive and noninvasive human isolates from our population.
Temperature, pH and bacterial competition effects were examined in the model as
well as the response of Galleria hemocytes to GBS infection. GBS strains were
able to effectively grow and infect G. mellonella in a dose dependent manner with
a (half-lethal dose) LD50 1 × 107 CFU after 24 h. GBS infection induced larva
melanization with hemocyte vacuolation and depletion. Larval killing increased
with environmental conditions such as temperature (37 °C) and pH (≥5.5-7.2).
Bacterial interference assays showed a remarkable antagonistic effect of
Lactobacillus gasseri (cells and filtrates) on GBS infection and significantly
improved Galleria survival. The protective effect of L. gasseri was observed even
at ratios similar to those of GBS colonization suggesting that L. gasseri
modulation by its metabolic products is relevant. Exposure to L. gasseri acidic
filtrates induced growth inhibition and prevented larva killing after infection
with the hypervirulent GBS clone (a multiresistant clinical ST 17 strain). We
showed that mechanisms mediating these effects are mainly pH dependent, however
other mechanisms may have a role depending on inocula. We also found that G.
mellonella infected with invasive human GBS isolates showed differential killing 
curves with higher killing rates after 24 h when compared to those considered
colonizers or noninvasive isolates. Overall it has been shown that G. mellonella 
may be a representative in vivo model for baseline GBS studies. Given the
potential effects over the hypervirulent strain, our findings support the use of 
L. gasseri in the GBS control strategies based on Lactobacillus formulations.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104400 
PMID: 32736013 

