
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 Sep 12;335:108886. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108886. [Epub ahead of print]

The influence of backslopping on lactic acid bacteria diversity in tarhana
fermentation.

Özel B(1), Şimşek Ö(2), Settanni L(3), Erten H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Cukurova University, Faculty of Agriculture, Department of Food Engineering,
01330 Adana, Turkey; University of Pamukkale, Cal Vocational High School,
Department of Food Processing, 20700 Denizli, Turkey. Electronic address:
bozel@pau.edu.tr.
(2)University of Pamukkale, Faculty of Engineering, Department of Food
Engineering, 20160 Denizli, Turkey. Electronic address: omers@pau.edu.tr.
(3)Dipartimento Scienze Agrarie, Alimentari e Forestali, Università degli Studi
di Palermo, Viale delle Scienze 4, 90128 Palermo, Italy. Electronic address:
luca.settanni@unipa.it.
(4)Cukurova University, Faculty of Agriculture, Department of Food Engineering,
01330 Adana, Turkey. Electronic address: herten@cu.edu.tr.

Tarhana is produced at batch systems in which the microbiota has changed
accordingly to the microbial load from ingredients. In order to stabilize the
microbiota, the effects of backslopping carried out under different temperature
regimes (25 and 30 °C), pH (3.70 and 4.00) and inoculation rates (5, 10 and 15%) 
on lactic acid bacteria (LAB) diversity were determined in tarhana dough. LAB and
Total Aerobic Mesophilic Bacteria (TAMB) numbers increased in all tarhana dough
samples subjected to backslopping. Temperature and pH significantly affected the 
microbiological diversity of tarhana whereas the different inoculation rates did 
not. Tarhana dough showed complex tarhana microbiota following backslopping at
pH 4.00 independently on the temperature applied. When backslopping was carried
out at pH 3.70 and 25 °C, tarhana microbiota stabilized and became steady after
several cycles. The LAB species found in all dough samples after the final
backslopping were Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus alimentarius and
Lactobacillus brevis which were able to carry out the fermentation in all
conditions tested. In order to obtain a stable presence of LAB populations at
industrial level for tarhana production, this work showed that backslopping is
recommended at pH 3.70 and 25 °C with any inoculation ratios.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108886 
PMID: 32950916 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.

