
1. Cryobiology. 2020 Oct;96:122-129. doi: 10.1016/j.cryobiol.2020.07.007. Epub 2020 
Jul 23.

Storage stability and sourdough acidification kinetic of freeze-dried
Lactobacillus curvatus N19 under optimized cryoprotectant formulation.

Gul LB(1), Con AH(1), Gul O(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ondokuz Mayis University, Engineering Faculty, Department of Food Engineering,
55139, Samsun, Turkey.
(2)Kastamonu University, Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, Department of
Food Engineering, 37200, Kastamonu, Turkey. Electronic address:
osmangul@kastamonu.edu.tr.

In this study, the response surface methodology was used to optimize the
cryoprotective agent (skimmed milk powder, lactose and sucrose) formulation for
enhancing the viability of Lactobacillus curvatus N19 during freeze-drying and
storage stability of cells freeze-dried by using optimum formulation was
evaluated. Our results showed that the most significant cryoprotective agent
influencing the viability of L. curvatus N19 to freezing and freeze-drying was
sucrose and skim milk, respectively. The optimal formulation of cryoprotective
agents was 20 g/100 mL skim milk, 3.57 g/100 mL lactose and 10 g/100 mL sucrose. 
Using the optimum formulation during freeze-drying, the cell survival was found
more than 98%. Under the optimal conditions, although only storage of the cells
at 4 °C for 6 month retained the maximum stability (8.85 log cfu/g), the employed
protectant matrix showed promising results at 25 °C (7.89 log cfu/g). The storage
stability of cells under optimized conditions was predicted by accelerated
storage test, which was demonstrated that the inactivation rate constant of the
freeze-dried L. curvatus N19 powder was 9.74 × 10-6 1/d for 4 °C and 2.08 × 10-3 
1/d for 25 °C. The loss of specific acidification activity after the storage at 4
and 25 °C was determined.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cryobiol.2020.07.007 
PMID: 32712072 

