
1. PLoS One. 2020 Apr 2;15(4):e0230857. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0230857.
eCollection 2020.

Nucleotide sequence and analysis of pRC12 and pRC18, two theta-replicating
plasmids harbored by Lactobacillus curvatus CRL 705.

Terán LC(1), Cuozzo SA(2), Aristimuño Ficoseco MC(1), Fadda S(1), Chaillou S(3), 
Champomier-Vergès MC(3), Zagorec M(4), Hébert EM(1), Raya RR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos (CERELA)-CONICET, Tucumán, Argentina.
(2)Planta Piloto de Procesos Industriales Microbiológicos (PROIMI)-CONICET,
Tucumán, Argentina.
(3)Université Paris-Saclay, INRAE, AgroParisTech, Micalis Institute,
Jouy-en-Josas, France.
(4)INRAE, UMR1014 Secalim, Oniris, Nantes, France.

The nucleotide sequences of plasmids pRC12 (12,342 bp; GC 43.99%) and pRC18
(18,664 bp; GC 34.33%), harbored by the bacteriocin-producer Lactobacillus
curvatus CRL 705, were determined and analyzed. Plasmids pRC12 and pRC18 share a 
region with high DNA identity (> 83% identity between RepA, a Type II
toxin-antitoxin system and a tyrosine integrase genes) and are stably maintained 
in their natural host L. curvatus CRL 705. Both plasmids are low copy number and 
belong to the theta-type replicating group. While pRC12 is a pUCL287-like plasmid
that possesses iterons and the repA and repB genes for replication, pRC18 harbors
a 168 amino acid replication protein affiliated to RepB, which was named RepB'.
Plasmid pRC18 also possesses a pUCL287-like repA gene but it was disrupted by an 
11 kb insertion element that contains RepB', several transposases/IS elements,
and the lactocin Lac705 operon. An Escherichia coli / Lactobacillus shuttle
vector, named plasmid p3B1, carrying the pRC18 replicon (i.e. repB' and
replication origin), a chloramphenicol resistance gene and a pBluescript
backbone, was constructed and used to define the host range of RepB'.
Chloramphenicol-resistant transformants were obtained after electroporation of
Lactobacillus plantarum CRL 691, Lactobacillus sakei 23K and a plasmid-cured
derivative of L. curvatus CRL 705, but not of L. curvatus DSM 20019 or
Lactococcus lactis NZ9000. Depending on the host, transformation efficiency
ranged from 102 to 107 per μg of DNA; in the new hosts, the plasmid was
relatively stable as 29-53% of recombinants kept it after cell growth for 100
generations in the absence of selective pressure. Plasmid p3B1 could therefore be
used for cloning and functional studies in several Lactobacillus species.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0230857 
PMCID: PMC7117683
PMID: 32240216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

