
1. BMC Res Notes. 2020 Aug 3;13(1):364. doi: 10.1186/s13104-020-05205-z.

Fermented soy supplementation improves indicators of quality of life: a
randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial in adults experiencing
heartburn.

Fatani A(1), Vaher K(2), Rivero-Mendoza D(1), Alabasi K(1), Dahl WJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, University of Florida, 359
FSHN Building, 572 Newell Drive, Gainesville, FL, USA.
(2)Lallemand Bio-Ingredients, Akadeemia tee 21/3, Tallinn, 12618, Estonia.
(3)Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, University of Florida, 359
FSHN Building, 572 Newell Drive, Gainesville, FL, USA. wdahl@ufl.edu.

OBJECTIVE: To determine if fermented soy supplementation relieves heartburn and
improves gastrointestinal symptoms and quality of life, a randomized,
double-blind parallel study was conducted with adults experiencing mild or
moderate heartburn. Participants consumed up to 3, 1 g sachets of flavored,
Lactobacillus delbrueckii fermented with soy flour (n = 23) or placebo
(maltodextrin) (n = 27) sachets per heartburn incident as needed for 3 weeks.
Symptom intensity at 5, 15, and 30 min post-administration was assessed using a
Likert-like scale. The Gastrointestinal Symptoms Rating Scale (GSRS) and
Gastro-esophageal Reflux Disease Quality of Life Questionnaire (GERD-QOL) were
administered at baseline, post-intervention and following a 1-week washout.
RESULTS: No significant differences between groups were seen for heartburn
severity or frequency, GSRS syndromes, or GERD-QOL domains. However, individual
QOL items related to inconvenience of taking medications, fear of eating,
inability to concentrate at work, and disturbance of after-meal activities and
rest improved with fermented soy compared to placebo. Frequency of heartburn,
diarrhea, and bloating improved during washout vs. baseline for the fermented soy
group compared to placebo. Lactobacillus delbrueckii fermented soy
supplementation improved QOL indicators and may decrease heartburn occurrence
over time vs. an acute effect; efficacy of daily intake and longer duration
requires investigation.

DOI: 10.1186/s13104-020-05205-z 
PMCID: PMC7397630
PMID: 32746904 

