
1. EFSA J. 2020 Mar 6;18(3):e06004. doi: 10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6004. eCollection 2020 
Mar.

Orodispersible lozenges containing a combination of Lactobacillus reuteri DSM
17938 and Lactobacillus reuteri ATCC PTA 5289 and normal gum function: evaluation
of a health claim pursuant to Article 13(5) of Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006.

EFSA Panel on Nutrition, Novel foods and Food Allergens (NDA), Turck D,
Castenmiller J, De Henauw S, Ildico Hirsch-Ernst K, Kearney J, Knutsen HK, Maciuk
A, Mangelsdorf I, McArdle HJ, Naska A, Pelaez C, Pentieva K, Thies F, Tsabouri S,
Vinceti M, Bresson JL, Sanz Y, Siani A.

Following an application from BioGaia AB submitted for authorisation of a health 
claim pursuant to Article 13(5) of Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006 via the Competent
Authority of Sweden, the EFSA Panel on Nutrition, Novel Foods and Food Allergens 
(NDA) was asked to deliver an opinion on the scientific substantiation of a
health claim related to orodispersible lozenges containing a combination of
Lactobacillus reuteri DSM 17938 and Lactobacillus reuteri ATCC PTA 5289 and
normal gum function. The scope of the application was proposed to fall under a
health claim based on newly developed scientific evidence. The Panel considers
that orodispersible lozenges containing L. reuteri DSM 17938 and L. reuteri ATCC 
PTA 5289 are sufficiently characterised. Maintenance of normal gum function is a 
beneficial physiological effect. Out of the two studies from which conclusions
could be drawn and that investigated the effect of lozenges containing L. reuteri
at the proposed conditions of use (i.e. consumption twice daily) on appropriate
gingival outcomes (bleeding on probing (PoB) and gingival index (GI)) in subjects
with gingivitis, but without periodontitis, one showed a large effect on BoP and 
other gingival outcomes and one showed no effect. No effect was found in one
study with the use of one lozenge daily. The three studies that investigated, at 
the proposed conditions of use, modified GI (and not BoP or GI) in subjects with 
gingivitis, but without periodontitis, or were conducted in patients with
periodontitis support an effect of lozenges with L. reuteri on gum function. Some
evidence has been provided for mechanisms by which consumption of lozenges
containing L. reuteri could improve outcomes of gingivitis in patients with
chronic periodontitis but the relevance of such mechanisms for the target
population of the claim (i.e. subjects without periodontitis) is unclear. The
Panel concludes that the evidence provided is insufficient to establish a cause
and effect relationship between the consumption of orodispersible lozenges
containing a combination of L. reuteri DSM 17938 and L. reuteri ATCC PTA 5289 and
maintenance of normal gum function.

© 2020 European Food Safety Authority. EFSA Journal published by John Wiley and
Sons Ltd on behalf of European Food Safety Authority.

DOI: 10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6004 
PMCID: PMC7447865
PMID: 32874242 

