
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 May 12;11:855. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00855. eCollection
2020.

Microbial Community Dynamics and Natural Fermentation Profiles of Ensiled Alpine 
Grass Elymus nutans Prepared From Different Regions of the Qinghai-Tibetan
Plateau.

Ding Z(1)(2), Bai J(2)(3), Xu D(1)(2), Li F(2)(3), Zhang Y(1)(2), Guo X(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Grassland Agro-ecosystems, School of Life Sciences,
Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, China.
(2)Probiotics and Biological Feed Research Centre, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou,
China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Grassland Agro-ecosystems, College of Pastoral
Agriculture Science and Technology, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, China.

Feed deficiency during the long cold period of a year is one of the major
problems that the traditional year-round animal grazing system has faced on the
Qinghai-Tibetan plateau (QTP) since ancient time. Therefore, ensiling the grasses
from grassland could be a desirable feeding regime to preserve high quality
forage and to alleviate the seasonal unbalanced feed supply problem on this
plateau. The present study was designed to investigate dynamics of bacterial
community and natural fermentation quality of ensiled Elymus nutans collected
from grasslands in four different areas with different elevations [Tianzhu County
(TZ), 2965 m; Golog Prefecture (GL), 3763 m; Damxung County (DX), 4228 m, and
Nagqu Prefecture (NQ), 4752 m] on the QTP. The bacterial community was
characterized by using the PacBio single molecule with real-time sequencing
technology (SMRT). The harvested fresh E. nutans grasses were ensiled in
vacuum-sealed polyethylene bags for 14, 30, 60, and 90 days. Obvious differences 
in the epiphytic bacterial community of the fresh E. nutans samples from the four
areas were observed, which resulted in various bacterial community dynamics and
fermentation qualities of ensiled E. nutans. Higher fermentation quality was
observed in silage samples from Nagqu than in those from the other areas (P <
0.05). Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) involved in fermentation of E. nutans from low 
altitude areas consisted of Pediococcus pentosaceus, Lactobacillus sp.,
Leuconostoc mesenteroides, and Lactobacillus coryniformis, whereas major LAB
species involved in the fermentation of E. nutans silage from high altitudes
included L. mesenteroides, Lactobacillus brevis, and Lactobacillus sp.
Correlation analysis between bacterial composition and fermentation quality of E.
nutans silages made from the four different areas in the QTP indicated that the
LAB species responsible for silage fermentation in different areas were totally
different, which was mainly due to the different epiphytic bacterial compositions
in fresh E. nutans before ensiling. The present results provide important
information on revealing the bacterial communities and fermentation quality of
ensiled E. nutans, and on future screening of LAB isolates for making high
quality silage in order to alleviate feed shortage of the traditional year-round 
grazing system on the QTP.

Copyright Â© 2020 Ding, Bai, Xu, Li, Zhang and Guo.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00855 
PMCID: PMC7235320
PMID: 32477296 

