
1. PLoS One. 2020 Mar 26;15(3):e0230739. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0230739.
eCollection 2020.

A whole-cell Lactococcus garvieae autovaccine protects Nile tilapia against
infection.

Bwalya P(1)(2)(3), Hang'ombe BM(2), Gamil AA(1), Munang'andu HM(1), Evensen Ã˜(1),
Mutoloki S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Norwegian University of Life Sciences, Oslo,
Norway.
(2)Samora Machel School of Veterinary Medicine, University of Zambia, Lusaka,
Zambia.
(3)Department of Veterinary and Livestock Services, Ministry of Fisheries and
Livestock, Lusaka, Zambia.

The autovaccine was produced in-house using a bacterial isolate from a diseased
fish from the target farm. Three groups of 150 fish each were injected with
either 1) an oil-adjuvanted, inactivated whole cell autovaccine, 2) adjuvant only
or 3) PBS (negative control). Approximately 660 degree days post vaccination, the
fish were challenged with 9x105 cfu bacteria/fish by intraperitoneal injection
and monitored for a further 28 days. Protection against infections was measured
by lack of/reduced bacterial loads both by bacterial re-isolation and
immunohistochemistry as well as absence of clinical signs/pathology.
Significantly less L. garvieae (p<0.03) was re-isolated from either the adjuvant 
only or control groups compared to the vaccinated group. Furthermore, a
significantly high amount (p<0.001) of anti-L. garvieae specific antibodies were 
observed in the vaccinated group compared to the adjuvant only or control groups 
at time of challenge. This coincided with protection against infection measured
by absence/reduced L. garvieae re-isolation from internal organs, reduced
clinical signs and lack of pathology in this group. In the adjuvant only and
control groups, bacteria were re-isolated from the kidney, liver, spleen, brain
and eyes during the first 14 days. The findings suggest that oil-based vaccines
can protect tilapia against L. garvieae infection through an antibody mediated
response.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0230739 
PMCID: PMC7098586
PMID: 32214386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

