
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 11;8(9). pii: E1395. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091395.

Modulation of the Gut Microbiota Alters the Tumour-Suppressive Efficacy of Tim-3 
Pathway Blockade in a Bacterial Species- and Host Factor-Dependent Manner.

Lee B(1)(2), Lee J(1)(2), Woo MY(1)(2), Lee MJ(1), Shin HJ(1)(2), Kim K(1)(2),
Park S(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Ajou University School of Medicine, Youngtongku
Wonchondong San 5, Suwon 442-749, Korea.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, The Graduate School, Ajou University,
Youngtongku Wonchondong San 5, Suwon 442-749, Korea.

T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-containing protein-3 (Tim-3) is an immune 
checkpoint molecule and a target for anti-cancer therapy. In this study, we
examined whether gut microbiota manipulation altered the anti-tumour efficacy of 
Tim-3 blockade. The gut microbiota of mice was manipulated through the
administration of antibiotics and oral gavage of bacteria. Alterations in the gut
microbiome were analysed by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Gut dysbiosis triggered by 
antibiotics attenuated the anti-tumour efficacy of Tim-3 blockade in both C57BL/6
and BALB/c mice. Anti-tumour efficacy was restored following oral gavage of
faecal bacteria even as antibiotic administration continued. In the case of oral 
gavage of Enterococcus hirae or Lactobacillus johnsonii, transferred bacterial
species and host mouse strain were critical determinants of the anti-tumour
efficacy of Tim-3 blockade. Bacterial gavage did not increase the alpha diversity
of gut microbiota in antibiotic-treated mice but did alter the microbiome
composition, which was associated with the restoration of the anti-tumour
efficacy of Tim-3 blockade. Conclusively, our results indicate that gut
microbiota modulation may improve the therapeutic efficacy of Tim-3 blockade
during concomitant antibiotic treatment. The administered bacterial species and
host factors should be considered in order to achieve therapeutically beneficial 
modulation of the microbiota.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091395 
PMID: 32932843 

