
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Sep 29. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-02053-0. [Epub ahead of
print]

Molecular identification and antibiotic resistance of bacteriocinogenic lactic
acid bacteria isolated from table olives.

El Issaoui K(1), Khay EO(2), Abrini J(2), Zinebi S(2), Amajoud N(2), Senhaji
NS(2), Abriouel H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biology and Health, Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, 
Abdelmalek Essaadi University, Tetouan, Morocco. issaoui.kaoutar@hotmail.fr.
(2)Laboratory of Biology and Health, Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, 
Abdelmalek Essaadi University, Tetouan, Morocco.
(3)Área de Microbiología, Departamento de Ciencias de la Salud, Facultad de
Ciencias Experimentales, Universidad de Jaén, Jaén, Spain.

In the present study, lactic acid bacteria were isolated from table olive in
Morocco. Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA fingerprinting with (GTG)'(5) primer
revealed a remarquable variability within isolates. According to the molecular
identification, Enterococcus faecium was the most dominant species isolated with 
32 strains (84.21%), followed by 4 strains of Weissella paramesenteroides
(10.52%), 1 strain of Leuconostoc mesenteroides (2.63%) and Lactobacillus
plantarum (2.63%). All of the strains that were identified showed occurrence of
more than one bacteriocin-encoding gene. Based on the results obtained, L.
plantarum 11 showed a mosaic of loci coding for nine bacteriocins (pln A, pln D, 
pln K, pln G, pln B, pln C, pln N, pln J, ent P). A phenotypic and genotypic
antibiotic resistance was also examined. L. plantarum 11, L. mesenteroides 62, W.
paramesenteroides 9 and W. paramesenteroides 36 as well as all the strains of E. 
faecium were susceptible to ampicillin, clindamycin and teicoplanin; however,
isolates showed a resistance profile against tetracycline and erythromycin.
Except E. faecium 114, E. faecium 130 and L. plantarum 11, no antibiotic
resistance genes were detected in all of the strains, which might be due to
resistances resulting from non-transferable or non-acquired resistance
determinants (intrinsic mechanism).

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-02053-0 
PMID: 32995979 

