
1. Anaerobe. 2020 Jun;63:102206. doi: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2020.102206. Epub 2020 Apr 
25.

Bacteria producing antimicrobials against Clostridium difficile isolated from
human stool.

Khattab RA(1), Ahmed NA(2), Ragab YM(2), Rasmy SA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology and Immunology Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo University,
Kasr Al-Aini, 11562, Cairo, Egypt. Electronic address:
rania.khatab@pharma.cu.edu.eg.
(2)Microbiology and Immunology Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo University,
Kasr Al-Aini, 11562, Cairo, Egypt.

Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) is a common cause of morbidity and
mortality in hospitalized patients worldwide. The major problem facing current
treatment is multiple recurrences, prompting the need for alternative therapies. 
In this study we isolated bacterial species, from Egyptian individuals' stool,
with antimicrobial activity against clinical isolates of C. difficile and tried
to examine the nature of the produced antimicrobials. In vitro antibacterial
activity against C. difficile was initially screened in 123 fecal samples
cultures using an agar overlay method. The isolates with antimicrobial activity
against C. difficile in addition to Clostridium isolates were identified using
partial 16S rDNA gene sequencing analysis. The isolates acting against
C. difficile belonged to Lactobacillus, Enterococcus and Clostridium genera. The 
concentrated cell-free supernatants (CFSs) from these bacterial isolates were
examined for antimicrobial activity against C. difficile growth by broth dilution
method. 10 x concentrated CFSs of five isolates showed inhibition for
C. difficile growth which was significantly different (p < 0.001) from control.
Lactobacillus agilis T99A and Clostridium butyricum T58A isolates were selected
for further evaluation of the produced antimicrobials. The antimicrobial activity
of 10x CFSs of the two isolates was stable after enzymatic treatment with
proteinase K or heating treatments up to 90 °C or neutralizing pH. The spectrum
of activity of the two isolates was evaluated using different gram-positive and
gram-negative bacterial species and did not show antimicrobial activity against
these species. Our results showed two unconventional bacterial isolates:
L. agilis T99A and C. butyricum T58A producing extracellular thermo stable
antimicrobial agents against C. difficile clinical isolates.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2020.102206 
PMID: 32339663 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest No conflict of 
interest.

