
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Sep 17. pii: S0022-0302(20)30711-6. doi:
10.3168/jds.2020-18208. [Epub ahead of print]

Short communication: High-throughput sequencing approach to investigate Italian
artisanal cheese production.

Biolcati F(1), Ferrocino I(2), Bottero MT(3), Dalmasso A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Veterinarie, Università di Torino, 10095 Grugliasco,
Italy; Dipartimento di Scienze Agrarie, Forestali e Alimentari (DISAFA),
Università di Torino, 10095 Grugliasco, Italy. Electronic address:
federica.biolcati@unito.it.
(2)Dipartimento di Scienze Agrarie, Forestali e Alimentari (DISAFA), Università
di Torino, 10095 Grugliasco, Italy.
(3)Dipartimento di Scienze Veterinarie, Università di Torino, 10095 Grugliasco,
Italy.

In this study, high-throughput sequencing (HTS) was used to investigate the
microbiota of Robiola di Roccaverano production, an artisanal Protected
Designation of Origin soft cheese made with raw goat milk by addition of a
natural milk starter (NMS), from the Piedmont region of Italy. Different steps of
production of Robiola di Roccaverano cheese at one artisanal dairy were
monitored. Matched samples of milk, NMS, curd, and 5-d and 15-d matured cheeses
were collected at different periods of the year. The DNA sequences obtained by
HTS belonged to 5 phyla: Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes,
Actinobacteria, and Tenericutes. In milk, Proteobacteria and Firmicutes were
mainly found, and several operational taxonomic units (OTU) belonging to
contaminant bacteria such as Pseudomonas, Serratia, and Staphylococcus were
observed. However, in NMS, curd, and 5- and 15-d cheeses, Firmicutes were
principally observed where OTU of Lactococcus lactis were predominant, followed
by Leuconostoc mesenteroides OTU. The results of the analysis showed high
bacterial diversity in milk samples compared with NMS, curd, and 5- and 15-d
cheeses, suggesting strong action of NMS in driving the characteristics of the
final products.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-18208 
PMID: 32952028 

