
1. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2020 Aug 29. doi: 10.1007/s12602-020-09693-0.
[Epub ahead of print]

Effect of Lactobacillus delbrueckii Subsp. lactis PTCC1057 on Serum Glucose,
Fetuin-A ,and Sestrin 3 Levels in Streptozotocin-Induced Diabetic Mice.

Hallajzadeh J(1), Eslami RD(2), Tanomand A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Maragheh University of Medical Sciences, 
Maragheh, Iran.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Higher Education Institute of Rabe Rashid, East
Azerbaijan, Tabriz, Iran.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Maragheh University of Medical Sciences, Maragheh,
Iran. tanomanda@tbzmed.ac.ir.

Intake of probiotic bacteria may improve or preserve insulin sensitivity.
Fetuin-A and sestrin 3 have emerged as promising candidate biomarkers for crucial
roles in insulin signaling pathway. Therefore, the effect of oral supplementation
with the probiotic bacterium Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. lactis PTCC1057 on 
proteins involved in insulin signaling pathway was investigated in normal and
streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice. The 6-8-week-old female mice were
divided into a non-diabetic control, diabetic control, and diabetic experimental 
and non-diabetic experimental groups (5 mice each group). Diabetic and
non-diabetic experimental groups treated with 3 × 107 CFU mL-1 L. delbrueckii
subsp. lactis PTCC1057 by gavage feeding approach daily for 28 days. Serum
glucose, fetuin-A, and sestrin 3 levels were measured by standard methods. The
result showed that oral administration of L. delbrueckii significantly decreased 
serum glucose in comparison to diabetic control group (P = 0.01). Serum fetuin-A 
level was higher in diabetic control group than non-diabetic group and oral
administration of L. delbrueckii subsp. lactis PTCC1057 significantly decreased
fetuin-A level in diabetic experimental group in comparison with non-diabetic
groups (P = 0.001). Sestrin 3 level significantly was lower in diabetic control
group than non-diabetic control group (P = 0.03) and it significantly increased
in diabetic experimental group in comparison with diabetic control group after
intervention of L. delbrueckii subsp. lactis PTCC1057 (P = 0.02). The results
show that feeding the STZ-induced diabetic mice with L. delbrueckii subsp. lactis
PTCC1057 terminated to decrease in fasting blood glucose and fetuin-A level and
increase in serum sestrin 3 level. Therefore, the L. delbrueckii subsp. lactis
PTCC1057 can be considered as excellent candidate for future studies on diabetes 
mellitus.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-020-09693-0 
PMID: 32862395 

