
1. Front Med (Lausanne). 2020 Jun 19;7:284. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2020.00284.
eCollection 2020.

Evaluation of the Inhibitory Effects of Lactobacillus gasseri and Lactobacillus
crispatus on the Adhesion of Seven Common Lower Genital Tract Infection-Causing
Pathogens to Vaginal Epithelial Cells.

He Y(1), Niu X(1), Wang B(1), Na R(1), Xiao B(1), Yang H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Peking University First Hospital,
Beijing, China.

Background/Purpose: Lactobacillus colonization is important to maintain
urogenital flora stability and prevent pathogenic infection. Different
Lactobacillus species have distinct properties and effects on the urogenital
flora. To select probiotics that colonize the vagina and provide protection
against pathogenic infection, we evaluated the adhesion of five Lactobacillus
strains and their inhibitory effects on the adhesion of pathogens to vaginal
epithelial cells (VECs). Methods and Materials: (1) Lactobacillus adhesion
experiments: VK2/E6E7 and primary VECs were used to evaluate the adhesion of two 
Lactobacillus gasseri and three Lactobacillus crispatus strains. The adhesion of 
these five Lactobacillus strains was compared. (2) Adhesion inhibition
experiments: The inhibitory effects of the five Lactobacillus strains on the
adhesion of pathogens (Gardnerella, Mobiluncus, Candida albicans, Streptococcus
agalactiae, Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Enterococcus faecalis)
were evaluated by adhesion exclusion, displacement, and competition experiments. 
Results: (1) Lactobacillus adhesion was stronger in the primary VECs than in the 
VK2/E6E7 VECs (P < 0.05). The adhesion of the three L. crispatus strains was
stronger than that of the two L. gasseri strains (P < 0.05). L. crispatus 4#
showed the strongest adhesion. (2) The exclusion, displacement, and competition
experiments showed that all five Lactobacillus strains significantly inhibited
the adhesion of the seven pathogenic strains to the VECs (P < 0.05). The
displacement effect was stronger than the exclusion and competition effects of
each Lactobacillus strain. (3) The results of the exclusion, displacement, and
competition experiments indicated that L. gasseri 1# showed the strongest
adhesion inhibition of C. albicans and S. agalactiae. L. crispatus 3# showed the 
strongest adhesion inhibition of S. aureus, whereas L. crispatus 4# showed the
strongest adhesion inhibition of Gardnerella, Mobiluncus, E. coli, and E.
faecalis. Conclusion: The source of the VECs might not affect the selection of
the most adhesive Lactobacillus strain. L. crispatus showed stronger VEC adhesion
than L. gasseri. The degree of antagonism of the Lactobacillus strains toward the
different pathogens varied. This result provides incentives for personalized
clinical treatment.

Copyright Â© 2020 He, Niu, Wang, Na, Xiao and Yang.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2020.00284 
PMCID: PMC7317292
PMID: 32637420 

