
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 Sep 11. pii: AEM.01646-20. doi:
10.1128/AEM.01646-20. [Epub ahead of print]

Mining and statistical modeling of natural and variant class IIa bacteriocins
elucidates activity and selectivity profiles across species.

Tresnak DT(1), Hackel BJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, University of
Minnesota -Twin Cities, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, University of
Minnesota -Twin Cities, Minneapolis, Minnesota hackel@umn.edu.

Class IIa bacteriocin antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are a compelling alternative 
to current antimicrobials because of potential specific activity towards
antibiotic-resistant bacteria, including vancomycin-resistant enterococci.
Engineering of these molecules would be enhanced by a better understanding of AMP
sequence-activity relationships to improve efficacy in vivo and limit effects of 
off-target activity. Towards this goal, we experimentally evaluated 210 natural
and variant class IIa bacteriocins for antimicrobial activity against six strains
of enterococci. Inhibitory activity was ridge regressed to AMP sequence to
predict performance, achieving an area under the curve of 0.70 and demonstrating 
the potential of statistical models for identifying and designing AMPs. Active
AMPs were individually produced and evaluated against eight enterococci strains
and four Listeria strains to elucidate trends in susceptibility. It was
determined that the mannose phosphotransferase system sequence is informative of 
susceptibility to class IIa bacteriocins, yet other factors, such as membrane
composition, also contribute strongly to susceptibility. A broadly potent
bacteriocin variant (lactocin DT1) from a Lactobacillus ruminis genome was
identified as the only variant with inhibitory activity towards all tested
strains, while a novel enterocin variant (DT2) from an E. faecium genome
demonstrated specificity towards Listeria strains. Eight AMPs were evaluated for 
proteolytic stability to trypsin, chymotrypsin, and pepsin, and three C-terminal 
disulfide-containing variants, including divercin V41, were identified as
compelling for future in vivo studies given high potency and proteolytic
stability.Importance Class IIa bacteriocin antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), an
alternative to traditional small-molecule antibiotics, are capable of selective
activity towards various Gram-positive bacteria, limiting negative side effects
associated with broad-spectrum activity. This selective activity is achieved
through targeting of the mannose phosphotransferase system (manPTS) of a subset
of Gram-positive bacteria, although factors affecting this mechanism are not
entirely understood. Peptides identified from genomic data, as well as variants
of previously characterized AMPs, can offer insight into how peptide sequence
affects activity and selectivity. The experimental methods presented here
identify promising potent and selective bacteriocins for further evaluation,
highlight the potential of simple computational modeling for prediction of AMP
performance, and demonstrate that factors beyond manPTS sequence affect bacterial
susceptibility to class IIa bacteriocins.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01646-20 
PMID: 32917749 

