
1. J Food Prot. 2020 Jan;83(1):28-36. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-19-208.

Evaluation of the Efficacy of Three Direct Fed Microbial Cocktails To Reduce
Fecal Shedding of Escherichia coli O157:H7 in Naturally Colonized Cattle and
Fecal Shedding and Peripheral Lymph Node Carriage of Salmonella in Experimentally
Infected Cattle.

Brown TR(1), Edrington TS(1), Genovese KJ(1), He HL(1), Anderson RC(1), Nisbet
DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Food and Feed
Safety Research Unit, 2881 F&B Road, College Station, Texas 77845, USA.

Two experiments were conducted to evaluate the feeding of direct fed microbials
(DFMs) on fecal shedding of Escherichia coli O157:H7 in naturally infected cattle
(experiment I) and on Salmonella in the feces and peripheral lymph nodes (PLNs)
of experimentally infected cattle (experiment II). Thirty cattle, 10 per
treatment, were used in each experiment. Treatments in experiment I consisted of 
a control (lactose carrier only); DFM1, a 1:1 ratio of Enterococcus faecium and
Lactobacillus animalis; and DFM2, a 1:1 ratio of Lactobacillus acidophilus and
Pediococcus acidilactici. In Experiment II, DFM1 was replaced with DFM3, a 1:2
ratio of Lactobacillus reuteri and other Lactobacillus strains. Additives were
mixed in water and applied as a top-dressing to each pen's daily ration for 50
days. Approximately half-way through each experiment, the DFM concentration was
doubled for the remainder of the study. Fecal samples were collected throughout
experiment I and cultured for E. coli O157:H7. Cattle in experiment II were
inoculated intradermally with Salmonella Montevideo on days 32, 37, and 42 and
then necropsied on days 49 and 50 (five cattle per treatment on each day). Innate
immune function was assessed on days 29, 49, and 50. In experiment I, fecal
concentration and prevalence of E. coli O157:H7 were not different (P > 0.10) nor
was there an effect (P = 0.95) on the percentage of super shedders (cattle
shedding â‰¥3.0 log CFU/g of feces). In experiment II, no treatment differences (P 
> 0.05) were observed for Salmonella in the PLNs except for the inguinal nodes,
which had a significantly lower Salmonella prevalence in DFM-supplemented cattle 
than in the controls. Immune function, as measured by monocyte nitric oxide
production and neutrophil oxidative burst, was decreased (P < 0.05) in the DFM
treatment groups. Although results of this research indicate little to no effect 
of these DFMs on E. coli O157:H7 or Salmonella in cattle, an increase in the
duration of administration to that similar to what is used for commercial cattle 
might elicit treatment differences.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-19-208 
PMID: 31809195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

