
1. J Anim Sci Biotechnol. 2019 Dec 5;10:95. doi: 10.1186/s40104-019-0399-5.
eCollection 2019.

Lactobacillus frumenti mediates energy production via fatty acid β-oxidation in
the liver of early-weaned piglets.

Wang Z(1)(2)(3), Hu J(1)(2)(3), Zheng W(1)(2)(3), Yang T(1)(2)(3), Wang
X(1)(2)(3), Xie C(1)(2)(3), Yan X(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)1State Key Laboratory of Agricultural Microbiology, College of Animal Sciences
and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan, Hubei 430070 China.
(2)The Cooperative Innovation Center for Sustainable Pig Production, Wuhan, Hubei
430070 China.
(3)Hubei Provincial Engineering Laboratory for Pig Precision Feeding and Feed
Safety Technology, Wuhan, Hubei 430070 China.

Background: Early-weaning of piglets is often accompanied by severe disorders,
especially diarrhea. The gut microbiota and its metabolites play a critical role 
in the maintenance of the physiologic and metabolic homeostasis of the host. Our 
previous studies have demonstrated that oral administration of Lactobacillus
frumenti improves epithelial barrier functions and confers diarrhea resistance in
early-weaned piglets. However, the metabolic response to L. frumenti
administration remains unclear. Then, we conducted simultaneous serum and hepatic
metabolomic analyses in early-weaned piglets administered by L. frumenti or
phosphate-buffered saline (PBS).
Results: A total of 100 6-day-old crossbred piglets (Landrace × Yorkshire) were
randomly divided into two groups and piglets received PBS (sterile, 2 mL) or L.
frumenti (suspension in PBS, 108 CFU/mL, 2 mL) by oral administration once per
day from 6 to 20 days of age. Piglets were weaned at 21 days of age. Serum and
liver samples for metabolomic analyses were collected at 26 days of age.
Principal components analysis (PCA) showed that L. frumenti altered metabolism in
serum and liver. Numerous correlations (P < 0.05) were identified among the serum
and liver metabolites that were affected by L. frumenti. Concentrations of
guanosine monophosphate (GMP), inosine monophosphate (IMP), and uric acid were
higher in serum of L. frumenti administration piglets. Pathway analysis indicated
that L. frumenti regulated fatty acid and amino acid metabolism in serum and
liver. Concentrations of fatty acid β-oxidation related metabolites in serum
(such as 3-hydroxybutyrylcarnitine, C4-OH) and liver (such as acetylcarnitine)
were increased after L. frumenti administration.
Conclusions: Our findings suggest that L. frumenti regulates lipid metabolism and
amino acid metabolism in the liver of early-weaned piglets, where it promotes
fatty acid β-oxidation and energy production. High serum concentrations of
nucleotide intermediates, which may be an alternative strategy to reduce the
incidence of diarrhea in early-weaned piglets, were further detected. These
findings broaden our understanding of the relationships between the gut
microbiota and nutrient metabolism in the early-weaned piglets.

© The Author(s). 2019.

DOI: 10.1186/s40104-019-0399-5 
PMCID: PMC6894312
PMID: 31827788 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.

