
1. Animals (Basel). 2020 Sep 24;10(10). pii: E1733. doi: 10.3390/ani10101733.

Effects of Ensiling Oxytropis glabra with Whole-Plant Corn at Different
Proportions on Fermentation Quality, Alkaloid Swainsonine Content, and Lactic
Acid Bacteria Populations.

Tao Y(1)(2), Niu D(3), Li F(2), Zuo S(1), Sun Q(2), Xu C(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, China.
(2)Grassland Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Hohhot
010010, China.
(3)Institute of Urban and Rural Mining, Changzhou University, Changzhou 213164,
China.

Oxytropis glabra (OG) is a leguminous forage that is potentially valuable for
solving the shortage of feed for livestock production, while, in large
quantities, it may be toxic because of its swainsonine (SW) content. In this
study, OG was ensiled with whole-plant corn (Zea mays L.) at 10:0, 9:1, 8:2, 7:3,
6:4, 5:5, 4:6, and 0:10 ratios on a fresh matter basis, and, after 60 d of
ensiling, the chemical composition, fermentation characteristic, SW removal rate,
lactic acid bacteria (LAB) populations, and their capabilities for SW removal
were analyzed. As the proportion of corn in the silage increased, the pH, as well
as the propionic acid, ammonia-N, dry matter, crude protein, and SW contents,
decreased linearly, while the lactic acid, neutral detergent fiber, and residual 
water-soluble carbohydrate contents increased linearly. Lactobacillus plantarum
was the most common microorganism present in all mixture silages. Lactobacillus
amylovorus and Lactobacillusbrevis were prevalent at lower ratios of corn to OG. 
Meanwhile, the LAB strains belong to L. amylovorus and L. plantarum had a higher 
SW removal rate. Our results suggested that ensiling OG with whole-plant corn
improves fermentation and decreases SW content, and that 5:5 is the optimal
ratio, so this type of mixed silage could make OG useable for ruminant
production.

DOI: 10.3390/ani10101733 
PMID: 32987662 

