
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Aug 12;8(8). pii: E1225. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8081225.

Lactobacillus Mucosae Strain Promoted by a High-Fiber Diet in Genetic Obese Child
Alleviates Lipid Metabolism and Modifies Gut Microbiota in ApoE-/- Mice on a
Western Diet.

Jiang T(1), Wu H(1), Yang X(1), Li Y(1), Zhang Z(1), Chen F(1), Zhao L(1)(2),
Zhang C(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, School of Life Sciences and
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, China.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology and New Jersey Institute for Food,
Nutrition and Health, School of Environmental and Biological Sciences, Rutgers
University, New Brunswick, NJ 08901, USA.

Supplementation of probiotics is a promising gut microbiota-targeted therapeutic 
method for hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis. However, the selection of
probiotic candidate strains is still empirical. Here, we obtained a human-derived
strain, Lactobacillus mucosae A1, which was shown by metagenomic analysis to be
promoted by a high-fiber diet and associated with the amelioration of host
hyperlipidemia, and validated its effect on treating hyperlipidemia and
atherosclerosis as well as changing structure of gut microbiota in ApoE-/- mice
on a Western diet. L. mucosae A1 attenuated the severe lipid accumulation in
serum, liver and aortic sinus of ApoE-/- mice on a Western diet, while it also
reduced the serum lipopolysaccharide-binding protein content of mice, reflecting 
the improved metabolic endotoxemia. In addition, L. mucosae A1 shifted the gut
microbiota structure of ApoE-/- mice on a Western diet, including recovering a
few members of gut microbiota enhanced by the Western diet. This study not only
suggests the potential of L. mucosae A1 to be a probiotic in the treatment of
hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis, but also highlights the advantage of such
function-based rather than taxonomy-based strategies for the selection of
candidate strains for the next generation probiotics.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8081225 
PMCID: PMC7464838
PMID: 32806628 

