
1. Mol Biotechnol. 2020 Sep 22. doi: 10.1007/s12033-020-00274-8. [Epub ahead of
print]

Construction of Genetically Modified Lactococcus lactis Producing
Anti-human-CTLA-4 Single-Chain Fragment Variable.

Namai F(1), Murakami A(1), Ueda A(1), Tsukagoshi M(1), Shigemori S(1), Ogita
T(1), Sato T(1), Shimosato T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomolecular Innovation, Institute for Biomedical Sciences,
Shinshu University, 8304 Minamiminowa, Kamiina, Nagano, 399-4598, Japan.
(2)Department of Biomolecular Innovation, Institute for Biomedical Sciences,
Shinshu University, 8304 Minamiminowa, Kamiina, Nagano, 399-4598, Japan.
shimot@shinshu-u.ac.jp.

Lactic acid bacteria are human commensal organisms that have immunomodulatory and
metabolism-promoting effects. In addition, due to the increasing demand for
biopharmaceuticals, genetically modified lactic acid bacteria (gmLAB) that
produce recombinant proteins are expected to be used as microbial therapeutics
and next-generation probiotics. In this study, we constructed a gmLAB strain that
produces anti-human cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4)
single-chain fragment variable (CTLA4scFv) for possible use in a cancer treatment
strategy using gmLAB. CTLA-4, an immune checkpoint molecule, suppresses the
anti-cancer immune response; thus, inhibition of CTLA-4 signaling is important in
cancer therapy. In this study, we designed a CTLA4scFv composed of a heavy and
light chain of the variable region from anti-human CTLA-4 antibody connected by a
flexible peptide linker. CTLA4scFv was expressed using nisin controlled gene
expression (NICE) system, a lactococcal inducible gene expression system, and the
DNA sequence encoding CTLA4scFv was inserted downstream of the PnisA promoter of 
the gene expression vector pNZ8148#2. Furthermore, expression of recombinant
CTLA4scFv was confirmed by Western blotting, and the immunoreactivity of
recombinant CTLA4scFv against human CTLA-4 protein was examined using ELISA. We
speculate that gmLAB producing bioactive CTLA4scFv will become an attractive
approach for cancer treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s12033-020-00274-8 
PMID: 32960405 

