
1. Bioresour Technol. 2020 Nov;315:123821. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123821. Epub
2020 Jul 11.

Additives affect the distribution of metabolic profile, microbial communities and
antibiotic resistance genes in high-moisture sweet corn kernel silage.

Wu Z(1), Luo Y(1), Bao J(1), Luo Y(1), Yu Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Grassland Science and Technology, China Agricultural University,
Beijing 100193, China.
(2)College of Grassland Science and Technology, China Agricultural University,
Beijing 100193, China. Electronic address: yuzhu33150@sina.com.

This work investigated the effects of chemical additive vanillin (V),
homofermentative Lactobacillus plantarum (LP), and heterofermentative
Lactobacillus brevis (LB) on the distribution of the metabolome, microbial
communities, viruses, and antibiotic-resistance genes in high-moisture corn
kernel silage. LP and LB improved lactic acid production, whereas V and LB
inhibited protein degradation. A significant difference was observed between the 
metabolite profiles of silage treated with additives and a control. In silage,
the Proteobacteria and Ascomycota were the main hosts of antibiotic-resistance
genes, primarily antibiotic efflux. The additives significantly affected the
virus content in silage, and LB-treated silage featured the lowest virus content.
Overall, these findings suggest that the application of the additive LB to
high-moisture corn kernel silage impacts antibiotic-resistance gene reduction and
virus distribution within the silage.

Copyright Â© 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123821 
PMID: 32683292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

