
1. Nutrients. 2020 Sep 24;12(10). pii: E2925. doi: 10.3390/nu12102925.

Short Communication: Oral Administration of Heat-killed Lactobacillus brevis
KB290 in Combination with Retinoic Acid Provides Protection against Influenza
Virus Infection in Mice.

Satomi S(1), Khanum S(2), Miller P(2), Suzuki S(1), Suganuma H(1), Heiser A(2),
Gupta SK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nature & Wellness Research, Innovation Division, KAGOME CO.,
LTD., 17 Nishitomiyama, Nasushiobara, Tochigi 329-2762, Japan.
(2)AgResearch Ltd., Hopkirk Research Institute, Grasslands Research Centre,
Private Bag 11008, Palmerston North 4442, New Zealand.

Influenza virus type A (IAV) is a seasonal acute respiratory disease virus with
severe symptoms, and an effective preventive measure is required. Despite many
reports describing the potentially protective effects of lactic acid bacteria,
few studies have investigated the effects of nutritional supplement combinations.
This study reports the effect of the combined intake of heat-killed Lactobacillus
brevis KB290 (KB290) and vitamin A (VA) on mice challenged with a sublethal dose 
of IAV. For 2 weeks, five groups of mice were fed either placebo, KB290, VA, or a
combination of KB290 and VA (KB290+VA). After subsequent IAV challenge,
bodyweight and general health were monitored for up to 2 weeks. Viral titres were
determined in the lungs of animal subgroups euthanised at days 3, 7, and 14 after
IAV challenge. A significant loss was observed in the bodyweights of IAV-infected
animals from day 1 post-IAV challenge, whereas the mice fed KB290+VA did not lose
any weight after IAV infection, indicating successful protection from the
infection. Additionally, mice in the KB290+VA group showed the highest reduction 
in lung viral titres. In conclusion, the combination of KB290 and VA could be a
useful food supplement relevant for protection against seasonal influenza virus
infection in humans.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12102925 
PMID: 32987850 

