
1. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2020 Sep 23;13(10). pii: E266. doi: 10.3390/ph13100266.

Potential of Cell-Free Supernatant from Lactobacillus plantarum NIBR97, Including
Novel Bacteriocins, as a Natural Alternative to Chemical Disinfectants.

Kim SW(1), Kang SI(1), Shin DH(1), Oh SY(1), Lee CW(2), Yang Y(2), Son YK(2),
Yang HS(2), Lee BH(2), An HJ(3), Jeong IS(4), Bang WY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Gene Analysis Center, Gyeongnam National University of Science & Technology,
Jinju 52725, Korea.
(2)National Institute of Biological Resources (NIBR), Environmental Research
Complex, Incheon 22689, Korea.
(3)Department of Pathology, CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA University, Seongnam 
13496, Korea.
(4)Center for Immune Cell Research, CHA Advanced Research Institute, Seongnam
13488, Korea.

The recent pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has increased demand
for chemical disinfectants, which can be potentially hazardous to users. Here, we
suggest that the cell-free supernatant from Lactobacillus plantarum NIBR97,
including novel bacteriocins, has potential as a natural alternative to chemical 
disinfectants. It exhibits significant antibacterial activities against a broad
range of pathogens, and was observed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) to
cause cellular lysis through pore formation in bacterial membranes, implying that
its antibacterial activity may be mediated by peptides or proteins and supported 
by proteinase K treatment. It also showed significant antiviral activities
against HIV-based lentivirus and influenza A/H3N2, causing lentiviral lysis
through envelope collapse. Furthermore, whole-genome sequencing revealed that
NIBR97 has diverse antimicrobial peptides, and among them are five novel
bacteriocins, designated as plantaricin 1 to 5. Plantaricin 3 and 5 in particular
showed both antibacterial and antiviral activities. SEM revealed that plantaricin
3 causes direct damage to both bacterial membranes and viral envelopes, while
plantaricin 5 damaged only bacterial membranes, implying different antiviral
mechanisms. Our data suggest that the cell-free supernatant from L. plantarum
NIBR97, including novel bacteriocins, is potentially useful as a natural
alternative to chemical disinfectants.

DOI: 10.3390/ph13100266 
PMID: 32977547 

