
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Aug 19;10:423. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00423.
eCollection 2020.

Lactobacillus rhamnosus Strains Relieve Loperamide-Induced Constipation via
Different Pathways Independent of Short-Chain Fatty Acids.

Wang G(1)(2), Yang S(1)(2), Sun S(1)(2), Si Q(1)(2), Wang L(1)(2), Zhang Q(1)(2),
Wu G(3), Zhao J(1)(2)(4)(5), Zhang H(1)(2)(5)(6)(7), Chen W(1)(2)(6)(8).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University,
Wuxi, China.
(2)School of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, The Affiliated Wuxi Second People's Hospital
of Nanjing Medical University, Wuxi, China.
(4)International Joint Research Laboratory for Probiotics, Jiangnan University,
Wuxi, China.
(5)(Yangzhou) Institute of Food Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Yangzhou,
China.
(6)National Engineering Research Center for Functional Food, Jiangnan University,
Wuxi, China.
(7)Wuxi Translational Medicine Research Center and Jiangsu Translational Medicine
Research Institute Wuxi Branch, Wuxi, China.
(8)Beijing Innovation Centre of Food Nutrition and Human Health, Beijing
Technology and Business University, Beijing, China.

Increasing researches have confirmed the relationship between slow-transit
constipation and gut microbiota dysbiosis. Many population and animal experiments
have identified probiotics as effectors for the relief of constipation symptoms, 
but the specific mechanism remains unclear. In this intervention study,
Lactobacillus rhamnosus strains isolated from five different sources were
administered to mice with loperamide-induced constipation, and the impacts of
these strains on constipation-related indicators were evaluated. All five strains
of L. rhamnosus were found to improve constipation to various degrees. However,
contrary to previous studies, the abilities of L. rhamnosus strains to improve
constipation symptoms were not associated with the levels of short-chain fatty
acids (SCFAs) in the colon. The effects of different strains of L. rhamnosus on
constipation relief were associated with different aspects of the GI tract,
including gastrointestinal regulatory peptides, neurotransmitters, neurotrophic
factors, and gut microbiota. The findings of this study demonstrate that L.
rhamnosus strains can alleviate constipation-related symptoms via different
pathways independent of SCFAs regulation. This study yields a new perspective for
clinical use of probiotics to better improve constipation symptoms, by combining 
strains with different mechanisms for alleviation of constipation.

Copyright Â© 2020 Wang, Yang, Sun, Si, Wang, Zhang, Wu, Zhao, Zhang and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00423 
PMCID: PMC7466723
PMID: 32974216 

