
1. J Food Sci. 2020 Feb;85(2):289-297. doi: 10.1111/1750-3841.15010. Epub 2020 Jan
22.

Influence of homopolysaccharide-producing lactic acid bacteria on the
spreadability of raw fermented sausages (onion mettwurst).

Hilbig J(1), Hildebrandt L(1), Herrmann K(1), Weiss J(1), Loeffler M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Food Physics and Meat Science, Inst. of Food Science and
Biotechnology, Univ. of Hohenheim, Garbenstrasse 21/25, 70599, Stuttgart,
Germany.

The purpose of the study was to investigate the effect of a reduced pH value (5.1
instead of 5.5 to 5.6) on the properties of highly perishable, spreadable raw
fermented sausages (onion mettwurst) with or without the addition of
homopolysaccharide (HoPS)-producing lactic acid bacteria (LAB). Hence, sausages
with HoPS-producing LAB and a pH value of 5.1 were produced and compared to
sausages (pH 5.1) produced with a non-exopolysaccharide (EPS)-forming strain
(Lactobacillus sakei TMW 1.2037). Microbial growth and pH values were monitored
during processing (24 °C for 48 hr, 10 °C for 24 hr) and storage (14 days at 0 to
2 °C). Furthermore, fat (Weibull-Stoldt) and EPS contents were determined in the 
final products. Sausages were characterized using texture profile and sensory
analysis. The fat contents ranged from 16% to 19% and the determined EPS
concentrations ranged from 0.17 to 0.59 g/kg for L. sakei TMW 1.411 and
Lactobacillus curvatus TMW 1.1928 and from 0.67 to 1.58 g/kg for L. curvatus TMW 
1.51. The strains L. sakei TMW 1.411 and L. curvatus TMW 1.51 reduced the
hardness of the samples significantly (P < 0.05) compared to the control samples.
Regarding spreadability and mouthfeel, sausages containing an EPS-forming culture
were rated slightly better than the control samples and the taste was not
negatively influenced. PRACTICAL APPLICATION: This study clearly demonstrated
that it is promising to apply HoPS-producing LAB to maintain the spreadability of
pH-reduced (pH 5.1) spreadable raw fermented onion mettwurst, which may
prospectively give the opportunity to increase the safety of this highly
perishable product.

© 2020 The Authors. Journal of Food Science published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. 
on behalf of Institute of Food Technologists.

DOI: 10.1111/1750-3841.15010 
PMID: 31968403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

