
1. J Microbiol Methods. 2020 Sep 20;178:106064. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2020.106064.
[Epub ahead of print]

Novel specific peaks for differentiating the Lactobacillus plantarum group using 
matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry.

Kim E(1), Yang SM(1), Kim HB(1), Kim HY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Life Sciences & Resources and Department of Food Science and
Biotechnology, Kyung Hee University, Yongin 17104, Republic of Korea.
(2)Institute of Life Sciences & Resources and Department of Food Science and
Biotechnology, Kyung Hee University, Yongin 17104, Republic of Korea. Electronic 
address: hykim@khu.ac.kr.

Identifying the Lactobacillus plantarum group using conventional taxonomic
methods such as biochemical analysis and 16S rRNA gene sequencing is inaccurate, 
expensive, and time-consuming. In this study, for the first time, matrix-assisted
laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry was used to identify
the L. plantarum group and develop a classification method for species level
differentiation with specific peaks based on mass spectra. Furthermore, from the 
mass spectra of 131 isolates aligned with the biotyper database, 131 isolates
(100%) were correctly identified at the species level with a mean score of 2.316.
However, commercial databases could not accurately differentiate some isolates of
L. plantarum group species because the same colony was identified as different
species with similar score values. Moreover, these two species showed a similar
mass pattern in the main spectrum profiles-dendrogram and Principal component
analysis clustering generated by the mass peak of the reference strains and
isolates. Specific peaks to each species were investigated from the analyzed mass
peak, and they clearly showed that three species could be differentiated. These
peaks were verified by re-identifying 131 isolates, and it demonstrated 100%
specificity and accuracy. Also, using a specific peak, isolates that were
undifferentiated from the biotyper database were clearly identified as one
species, similar to species-specific polymerase chain reaction. Our data
demonstrate that the specific peaks accurately differentiate the L. plantarum
group and enable high-resolution identification at the species level; this
methodology can be used to rapidly and easily identify them and determine their
nomenclature.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mimet.2020.106064 
PMID: 32961241 

