
1. Molecules. 2020 Sep 30;25(19). pii: E4490. doi: 10.3390/molecules25194490.

Cicer arietinum L. Sprouts' Influence on Mineralization of Saos-2 and Migration
of MCF-7 Cells.

Zakłos-Szyda M(1), Gałązka-Czarnecka I(2), Grzelczyk J(2), Budryn G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Biotechnology and Food Sciences, Institute of Molecular and
Industrial Biotechnology, Lodz University of Technology, Stefanowskiego 4/10,
90-924 Lodz, Poland.
(2)Faculty of Biotechnology and Food Sciences, Institute of Food Technology and
Analysis, Lodz University of Technology, Stefanowskiego 4/10, 90-924 Lodz,
Poland.

In the present study, we investigated the biological activity of four extracts
obtained from Cicer arietinum L. sprouts. The fermentation of the sprouts with
Lactobacillus casei and their incubation with β-glucosidase elevated the
concentrations of isoflavonoids, especially coumestrol, formononetin and
biochanin A. To study the biological activity of C. arietinum, the human
osteosarcoma Saos-2 and human breast cancer MCF-7 cell lines were used. The
extracts obtained from fermented sprouts exhibited the strongest ability to
decrease intracellular oxidative stress in both types of cells. They augmented
mineralization and alkaline phosphatase activity in Saos-2 cells, as well as
diminished the secretion of interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor α.
Simultaneously, the extracts, at the same doses, inhibited the migration of MCF-7
cells. On the other hand, elevated concentrations of C. arietinum induced
apoptosis in estrogen-dependent MCF-7 cells, while lower doses stimulated cell
proliferation. These results are important for carefully considering the use of
fermented C. arietinum sprouts as a dietary supplement component for the
prevention of osteoporosis.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25194490 
PMID: 33007937 

