
1. New Microbiol. 2020 Jul;43(3):121-126. Epub 2020 Jul 13.

Comparison between a novel molecular tool and conventional methods for diagnostic
classification of bacterial vaginosis: is integration of the two approaches
necessary for a better evaluation?

Scapaticci M(1), Da Rin G(2), Bartolini A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Medicine, San Camillo Hospital, Treviso, Italy.
(2)Laboratory Medicine, IRCCS Policlinico San Martino Hospital, Genova, Italy.
(3)Laboratory Medicine, San Bassiano Hospital, Bassano del Grappa, Italy.

The etiological cause of bacterial vaginosis (BV) is the change of the vaginal
ecosystem characterized by a decrease of lactobacilli and an increase of other
germs, such as Gardnerella vaginalis and Atopobium vaginae. Molecular tools have 
revolutionized the diagnosis of these conditions. The aim of this paper was to
compare results obtained from 158 vaginal swabs collected from women aged between
18 and 59 years old and subjected to microscopic evaluation (Nugent Score),
culture and to the multiparametric molecular assay Vaginitis and Vaginosis
Multiplex-Tandem (MT) PCR (AU27117) - Nuclear Laser Medicine. In 50 samples we
also used matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass
spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) for bacterial microbiome identification. Our results 
showed a moderate concordance between traditional and molecular methods for
diagnosis of candidiasis and a lower concordance for BV and normal flora. MALDI
TOF MS allowed us to discriminate more than 10 species of lactobacilli with a
greater abundance of Lactobacillus gasseri, Lactobacillus paracasei spp.
paracasei, Lactobacillus pentosus and Lactobacillus crispatus in BV and altered
flora. This work underlined how the integration of different assays and
metagenomics studies can greatly expand our current understanding of vaginal
microbial diversity, providing more reliable diagnostic criteria for BV and its
intermediate condition diagnosis.


PMID: 32656571 

