
1. Food Res Int. 2020 Oct;136:109591. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109591. Epub 2020 
Jul 28.

Effects of combining two lactic acid bacteria as a starter culture on model
kimchi fermentation.

Lee JJ(1), Choi YJ(1), Lee MJ(1), Park SJ(1), Oh SJ(1), Yun YR(1), Min SG(1), Seo
HY(1), Park SH(1), Lee MA(2).

Author information: 
(1)World Institute of Kimchi, Gwangju 61755, Republic of Korea.
(2)World Institute of Kimchi, Gwangju 61755, Republic of Korea. Electronic
address: leemae@wikim.re.kr.

This study aimed to establish a mixed starter culture to standardize the flavor
of kimchi, a traditional Korean food. Leuconostoc mesenteroides and Lactobacillus
sakei were selected for the culture based on their key roles in kimchi
fermentation. The effects of various starter culture mixing ratios on the overall
fermentation process were investigated. Fermentation was carried out at 15 °C for
72 h. In the microbial community analysis, a similar ratio to the initial mixed
inoculated ratio was observed in the microbial environments. Treatment with
high-rate L. mesenteroides inoculation, exhibiting hetero-fermentative
characteristics, led to the production of mannitol (1393.11 mg/100 g), acetic
acid (57.70 mg/kg), and lactic acid (1141.90 mg/kg), in addition to the induction
of a rapid increase in the number of viable cells, thereby reducing the pH (pH
3.9). Conversely, treatment with high-rate L. sakei inoculation, exhibiting
homo-fermentative characteristics, led to the production of less mannitol and
acetic acid, with more lactic acid. Principal component analysis score plots
showed a distinct difference in kimchi metabolites depending on the lactic acid
bacteria (LAB) starter culture. Therefore, by using mixed LAB starter strains,
this study demonstrated the value of various characteristics and standardized
manufacturing of kimchi. LAB types and inoculation ratios greatly affected the
types and concentration of metabolites in kimchi fermentation.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109591 
PMID: 32846617 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

