
1. Vet Res Forum. 2020 Winter;11(1):67-75. doi: 10.30466/vrf.2018.84395.2110. Epub
2020 Mar 15.

Evaluation of lactic acid bacteria isolated from poultry feces as potential
probiotic and its in vitro competitive activity against Salmonella typhimurium.

Salehizadeh M(1), Modarressi MH(1), Mousavi SN(2), Tajabadi Ebrahimi M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad University,
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Animal Science, Varamin-Pishva Branch, Islamic Azad University, 
Varamin, Iran.
(3)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, Central Tehran Branch, Islamic
Azad University, Tehran, Iran.

The efficacy of probiotics as alternatives to antibiotics has been defined as one
of the potential strategies to prevent Salmonella spp. infection in poultry. The 
purpose of this study was to isolate probiotic native Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) 
with high compatibility to intestinal tract and prevention of Salmonella
typhimurium from broiler chicken feces. Thirty-seven samples of chicken feces
were collected from seven broiler chicken farms in Northern Iran. The isolates
identification was carried out with morphological and biochemical tests. Agar
diffusion methods were used to evaluate the antimicrobial activities against
Escherichia coli and S. typhimurium. The primary probiotic characteristics such
as resistance to acid and bile and adhesion to Caco-2 cells were studied. Indeed,
the ability of LAB isolates to inhibit adhesion of S. typhimurium to Caco-2 cells
was evaluated by exclusion, competition and displacement assays. Among 42
isolates, S08, S01 and S06 isolates which showed appropriate probiotics
characteristics were selected. Isolates S08 and S01 showed to be able to adhere
strongly and also S06 was adhered moderately. In the exclusion assay, the
isolates S08, S01 and S06 significantly hampered adhesion of S. typhimurium cell,
in the competition assay, the isolates S08, S01 showed significant level of
competition activity against S. typhimurium adherence to Caco-2 cells and isolate
S08 showed the greatest displacement activity. The 16S rDNA sequence revealed
that S08, S01, and S06 isolates were 99.00% similar to Lactobacillus salivarius, 
Lactobacillus johnsonii, and Pediococcus acidilactici, respectively. The result
of this study suggested that LAB isolated from broiler chicken feces could be a
remarkable reservoir for identification of probiotic to inhibit the pathogenic
bacteria growth.

Â© 2020 Urmia University. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.30466/vrf.2018.84395.2110 
PMCID: PMC7282224
PMID: 32537109 

