
1. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2020 Oct;105:457-468. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.06.040.
Epub 2020 Jul 13.

Resistant and susceptible rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) lines show
distinctive immune response to Lactococcus garvieae.

Bulfon C(1), Prearo M(2), Volpatti D(3), Byadgi O(1), Righetti M(2), Maniaci
MG(2), Campia V(2), Pastorino P(2), Pascoli F(4), Toffan A(4), Biolatti C(2),
Acutis PL(2), Colussi S(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Udine, Department of Agricultural, Food, Environmental and
Animal Sciences (DI4A), Section of Animal and Veterinary Sciences, via Sondrio
2/a, 33100, Udine, UD, Italy.
(2)Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale del Piemonte, Liguria e Valle d'Aosta
(IZSPLV), via Bologna 148, 10154, Torino, TO, Italy.
(3)University of Udine, Department of Agricultural, Food, Environmental and
Animal Sciences (DI4A), Section of Animal and Veterinary Sciences, via Sondrio
2/a, 33100, Udine, UD, Italy. Electronic address: donatella.volpatti@uniud.it.
(4)Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale delle Venezie (IZSVe), Viale
dell'Università 10, 35020, Legnaro, PD, Italy.

Lactococcosis is one of the main bacterial diseases affecting rainbow trout
(Oncorhynchus mykiss), with significant economic and sanitary repercussion.
Vaccination and antibiotic treatments are commonly used to prevent and control
the infection outbreaks; however, these strategies have some drawbacks including 
limited coverage, handling costs, induction of antibiotic resistance and chemical
residues in the environment. Selective breeding programs represent a promising
complementary approach for increasing fish disease resistance in commercial farms
and some immunological parameters may be tentatively used as indirect indicators 
for this purpose. The present study investigated for the first time some innate
and adaptive immune responses in two groups of rainbow trout derived from
selected lines (susceptible and resistant) showing a different "in field"
phenotypical resistance to Yersinia ruckeri, Flavobacterium branchiophilum, F.
psychrophilum, and Ichthyophthirius multifiliis, after an immersion-dilution
based exposure to Lactococcus garvieae carried out in controlled experimental
conditions. Twenty-six resistant and twenty-six susceptible female rainbow trout 
(mean body weight 80 g, 9 months aged, F5 generation) were obtained from an
intensive farm considered L. garvieae free and were exposed to the pathogen.
Moreover, 10 resistant and 10 susceptible fish were used as uninfected controls. 
After 5 days, blood and tissue samples were collected for immunological analyses.
A significantly higher serum and mucus lysozyme activity was recorded in
resistant rainbow trout compared to susceptible fish (P ≤ 0.05), both before and 
after exposure to L. garvieae. Similarly, respiratory burst activity of head
kidney leukocytes resulted more intense in resistant fish (P ≤ 0.05), suggesting 
that phagocytes could more quickly activate their microbicidal mechanisms to
counteract the bacterial spread. Resistant group displayed also an up-regulation 
of immunoglobulins M (IgM), major histocompatibility complex II (MHC-II) and
interleukin 8 (IL-8) gene expression (P ≤ 0.05) and a significantly higher blood 
lymphocytes count (P ≤ 0.05), highlighting their potential better ability to
trigger the recruitment of defensive cells and the initiation of specific immune 
processes such as antigen presentation to CD4+ T lymphocytes and IgM synthesis.
The results herein presented might be useful for the identification of
immunological markers to be used as indirect indicators in rainbow trout
selective breeding programs.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2020.06.040 
PMID: 32673645 

