
1. J Anim Sci Biotechnol. 2020 Aug 3;11:76. doi: 10.1186/s40104-020-00488-5.
eCollection 2020.

Lactobacillus salivarius alleviates inflammation via NF-κB signaling in ETEC
K88-induced IPEC-J2 cells.

Qiao J(1), Sun Z(1), Liang D(1), Li H(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Tianjin Key Laboratory of Animal and Plant
Resistance, Tianjin Normal University, Tianjin, 300387 People's Republic of
China.
(2)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Agricultural Animal Breeding and Healthy Husbandry, 
College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Tianjin Agricultural
University, 22 Jinjing Road, Tianjin, 300384 People's Republic of China.

Background: Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) K88 commonly colonize in the 
small intestine and keep releasing enterotoxins to impair the intestinal barrier 
function and trigger inflammatory reaction. Although Lactobacillus salivarius (L.
salivarius) has been reported to enhance intestinal health, it remains to be seen
whether there is a functional role of L. salivarius in intestinal inflammatory
response in intestinal porcine epithelial cell line (IPEC-J2) when stimulated
with ETEC K88. In the present study, IPEC-J2 cells were first treated with L.
salivarius followed by the stimulation of ETEC K88 for distinct time period. ETEC
K88 adherent status, pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) mRNA, mitogen-activated
protein kinase (MAPK) and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activation, the release of
pro-inflammation cytokines and cell integrity were examined.
Results: Aside from an inhibited adhesion of ETEC K88 to IPEC-J2 cells, L.
salivarius was capable of remarkably attenuating the expression levels of
interleukin (IL)-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), IL-8, Toll-like receptor
(TLR) 4, nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptor pyrin
domain-containing protein (NLRP) 3 and NLRP6. This alternation was accompanied by
a significantly decreased phosphorylation of p38 MAPK and p65 NF-κB during ETEC
K88 infection with L. salivarius pretreatment. Western blot analysis revealed
that L. salivarius increased the expression levels of zona occludens 1 (ZO-1) and
occludin (P < 0.05) in ETEC K88-infected IPEC-J2 cells. Compared with ETEC
K88-infected groups, the addition of L. salivarius as well as extra inhibitors
for MAPKs and NF-κB to ETEC K88-infected IPEC-J2 cells had the capability to
reduce pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Conclusions: Collectively, our results suggest that L. salivarius might reduce
inflammation-related cytokines through attenuating phosphorylation of p38 MAPK
and blocking the NF-κB signaling pathways. Besides, L. salivarius displayed a
potency in the enhancement of IPEC-J2 cell integrity.

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1186/s40104-020-00488-5 
PMCID: PMC7398071
PMID: 32774852 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.

