
1. Mol Biol Rep. 2020 Mar;47(3):1871-1881. doi: 10.1007/s11033-020-05281-1. Epub
2020 Jan 31.

Characterization of antifungal metabolites produced by Lactobacillus plantarum
and Lactobacillus coryniformis isolated from rice rinsed water.

Bukhari SA(1), Salman M(1), Numan M(1), Javed MR(2), Zubair M(3), Mustafa G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Government College University, Faisalabad,
Pakistan.
(2)Department of Bioinformatics and Biotechnology, Government College University,
Faisalabad, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Sciences, University of Gujrat, Gujrat,
Pakistan.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Government College University, Faisalabad,
Pakistan. gmustafa_uaf@yahoo.com.

A recent spike in demand for chemical preservative free food has derived the
scientific community to develop natural ways of food preservation. Therefore,
bio-preservation could be considered as the great alternative over chemical ones 
owing to its potential to increase shelf-life and nutritional values of
foodstuffs. In the present study, lactic acid producing bacterial species were
isolated from rice rinsed water and identified by 16S rRNA gene sequencing as
Lactobacillus plantarum BCH-1 (KX388380) and Lactobacillus coryniformis BCH-4
(KX388387). Antifungal metabolites from both Lactobacillus species were extracted
by polarity-based solvents in which ethyl acetate showed remarkable antifungal
activity against Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus fumigatus by disc diffusion
assay. Different organic acids and fatty acids have been identified by
reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) and gas
chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis, respectively. Lactic acid and 
citric acid were the major organic acids found in ethyl acetate fractions of L.
plantarum and L. coryniformis, respectively. Similarly, 9,12-otadecadienoic acid 
(Z,Z)-methyl ester and hexadecanoic acid, methyl ester were the major fatty acids
found in n-hexane fractions of L. plantarum and L. coryniformis respectively.
Moreover, the isolation of novel antifungal metabolites from locally isolated
Lactobacillus species was focused and it was revealed that organic acids are
important contributors towards antifungal potential. A novel fatty acid (i.e.
12-hydroxydodecanoic acid) has also been explored and found as potential
metabolite against filamentous fungi. Conclusively, various metabolites isolated 
from non-dairy source showed antifungal activity especially against Aspergillus
species. Hence, these metabolites have been considered as a good choice for
bio-preservation.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-020-05281-1 
PMID: 32006197 

