
1. Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek. 2020 Sep;113(9):1345-1359. doi:
10.1007/s10482-020-01445-y. Epub 2020 Jul 6.

Administration of indigenous probiotics modulate high-fat diet-induced metabolic 
syndrome in Sprague Dawley rats.

Khanna S(1), Walia S(1), Kondepudi KK(2), Shukla G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Basic Medical Sciences Block A, South Campus,
Panjab University, Chandigarh, 160014, India.
(2)Healthy Gut Research Group, Food & Nutrition Biotechnology Division, National 
Agri-Food Biotechnology Institute (NABI), S.A.S. Nagar, Punjab, 140306, India.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Basic Medical Sciences Block A, South Campus,
Panjab University, Chandigarh, 160014, India. geeta_shukla@pu.ac.in.

Modulation of the gut microbiota by probiotics, is emerging as a promising
approach for the management of metabolic diseases but due to their species and
strain specific response, isolation of new probiotic strains is gaining
importance. The present study was designed to assess the effect of isolated and
well characterised indigenous probiotics, Lactobacillus pentosus GSSK2,
Lactobacillus fermentum PUM and Lactobacillus plantarum GS26A in high fat diet
(HFD) induced metabolic syndrome. It was observed that though supplementation of 
all three probiotics for 12Â weeks to Sprague Dawley rats fed with HFD,
ameliorated the anthropometric parameters, but L. pentosus GSSK2 showed maximum
reduction in weight gain while maximum decrease in abdominal circumference, Lee's
index, BMI and visceral fat deposition was observed in L. plantarum GS26A
compared with HFD animals. Further, administration of L. plantarum GS26A to HFD
animals led to significant increase in lactic acid bacteria count and lipid
excretion in feces followed by L. pentosus GSSK2 and L. fermentum PUM compared
with counter controls. Additionally, both L. pentosus GSSK2 and L. plantarum
GS26A exhibited improved glucose tolerance, liver biomarkers, alleviated
oxidative stress and restored the histoarchitechture of adipose tissue, colon and
liver compared with HFD animals. The study highlights the prophylactic potential 
of isolated probiotics in experimental metabolic syndrome model and revealed that
amongst all three probiotics, L. pentosus GSSK2 and L. plantarum GS26A were
equally effective and more promising than L. fermentum PUM in improving metabolic
dysfunctions and may be employed as functional foods but needs to be correlated
clinically.

DOI: 10.1007/s10482-020-01445-y 
PMID: 32632629 

