
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Jul;103(7):5931-5946. doi: 10.3168/jds.2019-17918. Epub 2020
Apr 29.

Prevalence and abundance of lactic acid bacteria in raw milk associated with
forage types in dairy cow feeding.

Gagnon M(1), Ouamba AJK(1), LaPointe G(2), Chouinard PY(3), Roy D(4).

Author information: 
(1)Département des Sciences des Aliments, Laboratoire de Génomique Microbienne,
Université Laval, Québec, QC G1V 0A6, Canada; Regroupement de Recherche pour un
Lait de Qualité Optimale (Op+Lait), Saint-Hyacinthe, QC J2S 2M2, Canada.
(2)Regroupement de Recherche pour un Lait de Qualité Optimale (Op+Lait),
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC J2S 2M2, Canada; Department of Food Science, University of
Guelph, Guelph, ON N1G 2W1, Canada.
(3)Regroupement de Recherche pour un Lait de Qualité Optimale (Op+Lait),
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC J2S 2M2, Canada; Département des Sciences Animales,
Université Laval, Québec, QC G1V 0A6, Canada.
(4)Département des Sciences des Aliments, Laboratoire de Génomique Microbienne,
Université Laval, Québec, QC G1V 0A6, Canada; Regroupement de Recherche pour un
Lait de Qualité Optimale (Op+Lait), Saint-Hyacinthe, QC J2S 2M2, Canada.
Electronic address: denis.roy@fsaa.ulaval.ca.

Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) found in milk can be responsible for organoleptic
defects in cheese. To identify sources of LAB that could potentially develop
during cheese making, we evaluated their prevalence and abundance in milk
according to the type of forage used in dairy cow feeding. Forages and bulk tank 
milk were sampled 3 times on 24 farms using either hay alone (control), or grass 
or legume silage supplemented with corn silage or not. Both types of silage were 
either non-inoculated or inoculated with commercial preparations containing at
least a Lactobacillus buchneri strain along with Lactobacillus casei,
Lactobacillus plantarum, Enterococcus faecium, or Pediococcus pentosaceus. Our
results indicate that LAB viable counts in milk samples (2.56 log cfu/mL) did not
differ according to the type of forage used. A total of 1,239 LAB were isolated
and identified by partial 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Although inoculation
increased lactobacilli abundance in grass silage by 35%, we did not observe an
effect on the LAB profile of milk. Indeed, we found no significant difference in 
milk LAB prevalence and abundance according to the type of forage (P > 0.05).
Moreover, isolates belonging to the L. buchneri group were rarely found in bulk
tank milk (3 out of 481 isolates). Random amplified polymorphic DNA typing of 406
LAB isolates revealed the plausible transfer of some strains from silage to milk 
(~6%). Thus, forage is only a minor contributor to LAB contamination of milk.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2019-17918 
PMID: 32359994 

