
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Aug 18;10:415. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00415.
eCollection 2020.

Irradiation-Induced Intestinal Damage Is Recovered by the Indigenous Gut Bacteria
Lactobacillus acidophilus.

Sittipo P(1), Pham HQ(2), Park CE(2), Kang GU(2), Zhi Y(3), Ji HJ(3), Jang A(3), 
Seo HS(3), Shin JH(2), Lee YK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrated Biomedical Science, Soonchunhyang Institute of
Medi-Bio Science, Soonchunhyang University, Cheonan, South Korea.
(2)Department of Applied Biosciences, Kyungpook National University, Daegu, South
Korea.
(3)Radiation Biotechnology Research Division, Advanced Radiation Technology
Institute, Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute, Jeongeup, South Korea.

The intestinal tract is one of the most sensitive organs following irradiation.
The protective effect of specific indigenous microbiota on irradiation-induced
damage to intestinal epithelial cells has not been reported. Mice were irradiated
with a single dose of 6 Gy of gamma rays. The intestinal damage was analyzed by
histopathology. Intestinal stemness and differentiation were determined by
intestinal organoid culture. Microbiota community was observed by high-throughput
16S rRNA gene sequencing and oligotyping analysis. We showed that distal small
intestine was damaged by sublethal dose of gamma irradiation. Intestinal
organoids derived from the irradiated mice showed defects in budding and mucin
expression, suggesting the detrimental effect of irradiation on the intestinal
stemness and differentiation. In addition, irradiation reduced intestinal
immunoglobulin A level, concomitant with decreased microbiota diversity based on 
our high-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing data. Especially, the relative
abundance of Lactobacillus was reduced at early time point post-irradiation;
however, it was recovered at late time point. Oligotyping analysis within the
Lactobacillus genus indicated that Lactobacillus-related oligotype 1 (OT1)
including Lactobacillus acidophilus might drive recovery after irradiation as it 
was associated with increased long-term numbers post-exposure. We showed that
treatment with heat-killed L. acidophilus rescued the budding-impaired organoids 
and induced sufficient differentiation in epithelial cells, and particularly
mucin-producing cells, in intestinal organoids. This study provides the first
evidence that the indigenous gut bacteria L. acidophilus enhance intestinal
epithelial function with respect to irradiation-induced intestinal damage by
improving intestinal stem cell function and cell differentiation.

Copyright Â© 2020 Sittipo, Pham, Park, Kang, Zhi, Ji, Jang, Seo, Shin and Lee.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00415 
PMCID: PMC7461978
PMID: 32974214 

