
1. EFSA J. 2020 Jun 29;18(6):e06159. doi: 10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6159. eCollection 2020
Jun.

Safety and efficacy of Lactobacillus buchneri DSM 29026 as a silage additive for 
all animal species.

EFSA Panel on Additives and Products or Substances used in Animal Feed (FEEDAP), 
Bampidis V, Azimonti G, Bastos ML, Christensen H, Dusemund B, Kos Durjava M,
Kouba M, López-Alonso M, López Puente S, Marcon F, Mayo B, Pechová A, Petkova M, 
Ramos F, Sanz Y, Villa RE, Woutersen R, Herman L, Glandorf B, Prieto Maradona M, 
Saarela M, Galobart J, Gregoretti L, Innocenti M, López-Gálvez G, Sofianidis K,
Vettori MV, Brozzi R.

Following a request from the European Commission, the Panel on Additives and
Products or Substances used in Animal Feed (FEEDAP) was asked to deliver a
scientific opinion on Lactobacillus buchneri DSM 29026 when used as a
technological additive to improve ensiling of forage. The additive is intended
for use with all forages and for all animal species at a proposed minimum
concentration of 1 × 108 colony-forming units (CFU)/kg forage if used alone, or
5 × 107 CFU/kg forage if used in combination with other authorised
microorganisms. The bacterial species L. buchneri is considered by the EFSA to be
suitable for the qualified presumption of safety approach to safety assessment.
As the identity of the strain has been clearly established and no acquired
antimicrobial resistance determinants of concern were detected, the use of the
strain as a silage additive is considered safe for livestock species, for
consumers of products from animals fed the treated silage and for the
environment. In the absence of data, the FEEDAP Panel cannot conclude on the
potential of the additive to be a skin/eye irritant or skin sensitiser. Given the
proteinaceous nature of the active agent, the additive should be considered a
respiratory sensitiser. The FEEDAP Panel concluded that Lactobacillus buchneri
DSM 29026 at a minimum concentration of 5 × 107 CFU/kg may improve the production
of silage from easy and moderately difficult to ensile forage material.

© 2020 European Food Safety Authority. EFSA Journal published by John Wiley and
Sons Ltd on behalf of European Food Safety Authority.

DOI: 10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6159 
PMCID: PMC7447896
PMID: 32874334 

