
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Feb;103(2):1269-1275. doi: 10.3168/jds.2019-17203. Epub 2019
Dec 16.

Short communication: Evaluation of commercial meat cultures to inhibit Listeria
monocytogenes in a fresh cheese laboratory model.

Lawton MR(1), Jencarelli KG(1), Kozak SM(1), Alcaine SD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853.
(2)Department of Food Science, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853. Electronic
address: alcaine@cornell.edu.

Control of Listeria monocytogenes in queso fresco and other fresh cheeses
continues to be a challenge in the United States. These cheese types are
particularly challenging due to their high moisture and high pH, which provide
favorable conditions for the growth of L. monocytogenes. Protective cultures
(i.e., viable strains of lactic acid bacteria that inhibit other microorganisms) 
have been investigated in foods such as meat as an alternative, clean-label
control strategy for L. monocytogenes. However, the efficacy of protective
cultures can vary by food matrix. In this study, we were interested in whether
protective cultures used to control L. monocytogenes in meats could be applied to
control the pathogen in queso fresco. We selected 4 commercially available
bacterial cultures used for the control of L. monocytogenes in meat:
Lactobacillus curvatus, Lactobacillus sakei, Pediococcus acidilactici, and
Leuconostoc carnosum. We incorporated these cultures into batches of queso fresco
during manufacturing and evaluated them for their ability to inhibit the growth
of surface-applied L. monocytogenes at levels of 1 × 102 and 1 × 104 cfu/g. We
stored the queso fresco at 6 and 21°C for up to 21 d. After 14 d, Listeria was
able to grow to 1 × 107 cfu/g on the cheese. Our data show that the bacterial
cultures did not significantly inhibit the growth of L. monocytogenes in queso
fresco. The results from this study highlight the complexity of antagonistic
bacterial interactions and their potential variability across food matrices.
Protective cultures represent an important, clean-label tool for the control of
L. monocytogenes in foods, but each strain must be evaluated in the food
environment it is intended for to ensure its efficacy.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2019-17203 
PMID: 31837788  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

