
1. J Food Biochem. 2020 Sep 27:e13471. doi: 10.1111/jfbc.13471. [Epub ahead of
print]

Effect of Lactobacillus plantarum fermented barley on plasma glycolipids and
insulin sensitivity in subjects with metabolic syndrome.

Pan R(1)(2), Xu T(3), Bai J(1), Xia S(2), Liu Q(2), Li J(1), Xiao X(1), Dong
Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, PR
China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Affiliated Hospital of Jiangsu University,
Zhenjiang, PR China.
(3)College of Early Childhood Education, Jiangsu Second Normal University,
Nanjing, PR China.

Fermented barley (FB) flour by Lactobacillus plantarum is richer in dietary
fiber, polyphenols, gamma-aminobutyric acid, and other biologically active
ingredients. This study aimed to determine the impacts of fermented barley -
wheat flour compound noodle (FBWN) on glucose and fat metabolism in subjects with
metabolic syndrome. This was a single-blinded and parallel 10-week clinical trial
study. Subjects were randomly assigned into the trial group (FBWN) and whole
wheat noodles group (WWN), and were measured on the beginning of week 3 and the
ending of week 10. The glucose level at 30 and 60 min was significantly decreased
after FBWN intervention. Levels of fasting blood glucose, HbA1c, and TG were all 
declined after FBWN intervention compared to before in the trial group. Moreover,
the fat mass, fat rate, and visceral fat were decreased by 6.48, 7.19, 6.3 kg
after FBWN intervention, respectively, while muscle mass and basal metabolic rate
rose 7.44 kg and 252.60 kcal. PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS: Many studies have
illustrated that the extraction of fermented barley held the activities of
anti-obesity, antitumor, and so on. Moreover, this present study evaluated the
effects of fermented barley by Lactobacillus plantarum on patients with metabolic
syndrome. Results indicated that FB benefits the subjects on improving plasma
glycolipids and insulin sensitivity, decreasing visceral fat level, and
increasing satiety. The findings showed that the products of FB may be beneficial
to dietary manipulations, thus, reducing the burden of patients.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/jfbc.13471 
PMID: 32985001 

