
1. Eur J Pharm Sci. 2020 Sep 23;156:105563. doi: 10.1016/j.ejps.2020.105563. [Epub
ahead of print]

Immobilization of vaginal Lactobacillus in polymeric nanofibers for its
incorporation in vaginal probiotic products.

Silva JA(1), De Gregorio PR(2), Rivero G(3), Abraham GA(3), Nader-Macías MEF(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos (CERELA)-CONICET. Batalla de Chacabuco 
145, T4000. San Miguel de Tucumán, Tucumán. Argentina.
(2)Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos (CERELA)-CONICET. Batalla de Chacabuco 
145, T4000. San Miguel de Tucumán, Tucumán. Argentina. Electronic address:
pridegregorio@cerela.org.ar.
(3)Research Institute for Materials Science and Technology, INTEMA
(UNMdP-CONICET). Av. Colón 10850, B7606BWV, Mar del Plata, Argentina.
(4)Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos (CERELA)-CONICET. Batalla de Chacabuco 
145, T4000. San Miguel de Tucumán, Tucumán. Argentina. Electronic address:
fnader@cerela.org.ar.

Probiotic products require high number of viable and active microorganisms during
storage. In this work, the survival of human vaginal Lactobacillus gasseri
CRL1320 and Lactobacillus rhamnosus CRL1332 after nanofiber-immobilization by
electrospinning with polyvinyl-alcohol, and during storage was evaluated. The
optimization of bacterial immobilization and storage conditions using
bioprotectors (skim milk-lactose and glycerol) and oxygen-excluding packaging was
carried out, compared with lyophilization. After electrospinning, a higher
survival rate of L. rhamnosus (93%) compared to L. gasseri (84%) was obtained in 
nanofibers, with high viable cells (>107 colony-forming unit/g) of the two
probiotics in nanofibers stored at -20°C up to 14 days. The storage in
oxygen-excluding packaging was an excellent strategy to extend the shelf-life of 
L. rhamnosus (up to 1.7 × 108 CFU/g) in nanofibers stored at 4°C during 360 days,
with no addition of bioprotectives, resulting similar to freeze-dried-cells. L.
rhamnosus was successfully incorporated into polymeric hydrophilic nanofibers
with a mean diameter of 95 nm. The composite materials were characterized in
terms of morphology, and their physicochemical and thermal properties assessed.
Nanofiber-immobilized L. rhamnosus cells maintained the inhibition to urogenital 
pathogens. Thus, polymeric nanofiber-immobilized L. rhamnosus CRL1332 can be
included in vaginal probiotic products to prevent or treat urogenital infections.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejps.2020.105563 
PMID: 32976956 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare there is no conflict of interest. The results obtained were included in a
patent presentation (INPI, 2018, N° 20180103893).

