
1. J Food Sci. 2020 Sep 9. doi: 10.1111/1750-3841.15431. [Epub ahead of print]

Physicochemical and microstructural properties and probiotic survivability of
symbiotic almond yogurt alternative using polymerized whey protein as a gelation 
agent.

Shi H(1), Kraft J(2)(3), Guo M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutrition and Food Sciences, The University of Vermont,
Burlington, VT, 05405, USA.
(2)Department of Animal and Veterinary Sciences, The University of Vermont,
Burlington, VT, 05405, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism and Diabetes,
The University of Vermont, Burlington, VT, 05405, USA.

A plain symbiotic almond yogurt-like product was formulated and developed using a
plant-based starter YF-L02 (Streptococcus thermophilus, Lactobacillus delbrueckii
subsp. bulgaricus supplemented with Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus
paracasei, and Bifidobacterium animalis) and inulin; 0.6% polymerized whey
protein (PWP), 0.3% pectin, and 0.05% xanthan gum were optimized for the formula 
of the almond yogurt alternative. Two groups with/without calcium citrate and
vitamin D2 were prepared and analyzed for chemical composition, changes in pH,
viscosity, and probiotic survivability during storage at 4 °C for 10 weeks. The
results showed that (1) over 10 weeks storage, the differences in the pH,
viscosity, and probiotic survivability between the control and the fortified
samples were not significant (P > 0.05); (2) the pH of both yogurt samples
decreased 0.2 units while their viscosity slightly increased during storage; (3) 
the populations of L. paracasei and B. animalis remained above 106 cfu/g during
the storage, whereas the population of L. acidophilus decreased dramatically
during the first 4 weeks, especially the control group; (4) the microstructure
was examined by scanning electron microscopy, revealing a compact and denser gel 
structure formed by 0.6% PWP with the presence of 0.3% pectin and 0.05% xanthan
gum. In conclusion, PWP might be a proper gelation agent for the formulation of
symbiotic almond yogurt alternative. PRACTICAL APPLICATION: In this study,
polymerized whey protein was used as a gelation agent to formulate symbiotic
almond yogurt alternatives with comparable physical texture
and probiotic survivability to dairy yogurt during storage. This technology may
be used for the development of plant-based fermented foods.

© 2020 Institute of Food Technologists®.

DOI: 10.1111/1750-3841.15431 
PMID: 32901954 

