
1. Foods. 2020 Jul 17;9(7). pii: E948. doi: 10.3390/foods9070948.

A Review on Adventitious Lactic Acid Bacteria from Table Olives.

Portilha-Cunha MF(1), Macedo AC(1)(2), Malcata FX(1).

Author information: 
(1)LEPABE-Laboratory for Process Engineering, Environment, Biotechnology and
Energy, Faculty of Engineering, University of Porto, Rua Dr. Roberto Frias,
4200-465 Porto, Portugal.
(2)UNICES-ISMAI-Research Unit in Management Sciences and Sustainability,
University Institute of Maia, Av. Carlos Oliveira Campos, 4475-690 Maia,
Portugal.

Spontaneous fermentation constitutes the basis of the chief natural method of
processing of table olives, where autochthonous strains of lactic acid bacteria
(LAB) play a dominant role. A thorough literature search has unfolded 197 reports
worldwide, published in the last two decades, that indicate an increasing
interest in table olive-borne LAB, especially in Mediterranean countries. This
review attempted to extract extra information from such a large body of work,
namely, in terms of correlations between LAB strains isolated, manufacture
processes, olive types, and geographical regions. Spain produces mostly green
olives by Spanish-style treatment, whereas Italy and Greece produce mainly green 
and black olives, respectively, by both natural and Spanish-style. More than 40
species belonging to nine genera of LAB have been described; the genus most often
cited is Lactobacillus, with L. plantarum and L. pentosus as most frequent
species-irrespective of country, processing method, or olive type. Certain LAB
species are typically associated with cultivar, e.g., Lactobacillus
parafarraginis with Spanish Manzanilla, or L. paraplantarum with Greek Kalamata
and Conservolea, Portuguese Galega, and Italian Tonda di Cagliari. Despite the
potential of native LAB to serve as starter cultures, extensive research and
development efforts are still needed before this becomes a commercial reality in 
table olive fermentation.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9070948 
PMCID: PMC7404733
PMID: 32709144 

