
1. World J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Jul 13;36(8):111. doi:
10.1007/s11274-020-02887-2.

Metabolically engineered Lactobacillus gasseri JCM 1131 as a novel producer of
optically pure L- and D-lactate.

Žunar B(1), Trontel A(2), Svetec Miklenić M(1), Prah JL(2), Štafa A(1), Marđetko 
N(2), Novak M(2), Šantek B(2), Svetec IK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Biology and Microbial Genetics, Department of Biochemical
Engineering, Faculty of Food Technology and Biotechnology, University of Zagreb, 
Pierottijeva 6, 10000, Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Laboratory for Biochemical Engineering, Industrial Microbiology and Malting
and Brewing Technology, Department of Biochemical Engineering, Faculty of Food
Technology and Biotechnology, University of Zagreb, Pierottijeva 6, 10000,
Zagreb, Croatia.
(3)Laboratory for Biology and Microbial Genetics, Department of Biochemical
Engineering, Faculty of Food Technology and Biotechnology, University of Zagreb, 
Pierottijeva 6, 10000, Zagreb, Croatia. iksvetec@pbf.hr.

High-quality environmentally-friendly bioplastics can be produced by mixing
poly-L-lactate with poly-D-lactate. On an industrial scale, this process
simultaneously consumes large amounts of both optically pure lactate
stereoisomers. However, because optimal growth conditions of L-lactate producers 
often differ from those of D-lactate producers, each stereoisomer is produced in 
a specialised facility, which raises cost and lowers sustainability. To address
this challenge, we metabolically engineered Lactobacillus gasseri JCM 1131T, a
bioprocess-friendly and genetically malleable strain of homofermentative lactic
acid bacterium, to efficiently produce either pure L- or pure D-lactate under the
same bioprocess conditions. Transformation of L. gasseri with plasmids carrying
additional genes for L- or D-lactate dehydrogenases failed to affect the ratio of
produced stereoisomers, but inactivation of the endogenous genes created strains 
which yielded 0.96 g of either L- or D-lactate per gram of glucose. In this
study, the plasmid pHBintE, routinely used for gene disruption in Bacillus
megaterium, was used for the first time to inactivate genes in lactobacilli.
Strains with inactivated genes for endogenous lactate dehydrogenases efficiently 
fermented sugars released by enzymatic hydrolysis of alkali pre-treated wheat
straw, an abundant lignocellulose-containing raw material, producing 0.37-0.42 g 
of lactate per gram of solid part of alkali-treated wheat straw. Thus, the
constructed strains are primed to serve as producers of both optically pure
L-lactate and D-lactate in the next-generation biorefineries.

DOI: 10.1007/s11274-020-02887-2 
PMID: 32656603 

