
1. J Nutr Biochem. 2020 Oct;84:108442. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2020.108442. Epub 2020
Jun 2.

Unveiling the presence of epigenetic mark by Lactobacillus supplementation in
high-fat diet-induced metabolic disorder in Sprague-Dawley rats.

Sharma N(1), Navik U(1), Tikoo K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Epigenetics and Diseases, Department of Pharmacology and
Toxicology, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, S.A.S.
Nagar, Punjab-160062, India.
(2)Laboratory of Epigenetics and Diseases, Department of Pharmacology and
Toxicology, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, S.A.S.
Nagar, Punjab-160062, India. Electronic address: tikoo.k@gmail.com.

Gut dysbiosis, particularly bacteria from Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes phyla,
plays a fundamental role in the progression of metabolic disorders. Probiotics
have shown to restore the gut microbiota composition in metabolic disorders with 
subsequent beneficial effects. Recent studies have reported that several species 
of Lactobacillus as probiotic supplementation improve insulin sensitivity and
glucose metabolism. Nonetheless, whether Lactobacillus could influence the
epigenetic modifications that underlie insulin-resistant conditions is still
unexplored. Therefore, the current study examined the therapeutic effects and
underlying epigenetic mechanisms of three different species of Lactobacillus in
the high-fat diet (HFD)-induced insulin-resistant rats. Three different species
of Lactobacillus; Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillus gasseri, and Lactobacillus
rhamnosus were individually supplemented orally (109 CFU/mL) to insulin-resistant
SD rats for 12 weeks. Lactobacillus supplementation led to a significant
reduction in the hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, and hyperlipidemia associated
with HFD-induced insulin resistance. Histopathological examination also indicated
the protective effects of Lactobacillus supplementation against the hepatic and
intestinal damage caused by the high-fat diet. Lactobacillus supplementation also
down-regulated the expression of FOXO1, a major transcription factor of insulin
signaling. In addition, at the epigenetic level, Lactobacillus supplementation
predominantly prevented methylation and demethylation of H3K79me2 and H3K27me3,
respectively. Chromatin Immunoprecipitation (ChIP) coupled with quantitative PCR 
(ChIP-qPCR) assay revealed the presence of cross-talk between these two histone
modifications at the promoter region of FOXO1. Taken together, this is the first 
report to observe that the effects of Lactobacillus supplementation involve
alteration in FOXO1 expression via cross-talking between H3K79me2 and H3K27me3
histone modifications.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2020.108442 
PMID: 32629239 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare no conflict of interest.

