
1. Bioresour Technol. 2020 Nov;316:123910. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123910. Epub
2020 Jul 29.

Characterization of the microbial community, metabolome and biotransformation of 
phenolic compounds of sainfoin (Onobrychis viciifolia) silage ensiled with or
without inoculation of Lactobacillus plantarum.

Xu D(1), Ding Z(1), Wang M(1), Bai J(1), Ke W(1), Zhang Y(1), Guo X(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Grassland and Agro-ecosystems, School of Life
Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, PR China; Probiotics and Biological
Feed Research Center, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, PR China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Grassland and Agro-ecosystems, School of Life
Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, PR China; Probiotics and Biological
Feed Research Center, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, PR China. Electronic
address: guoxsh07@lzu.edu.cn.

The present study investigated the bacterial community, metabolome and
biotransformation of phenolic compounds in sainfoin silage inoculated either with
or without Lactobacillus plantarum. Our results revealed that the epiphytic
microbiota of wilted sainfoin mainly comprised Acinetobacter, Spingomonas,
Pseudomonas, Lactobacillus, Delftia and Aquabacterium. After ensiling, L.
acetotolerans, L. buchneri, L. plantarum, L. pentosus and Clostridium
tyrobutricum were the dominant species. Compared to the control, the inoculant L.
plantarum increased the relative abundance of L. buchneri while decreased that of
the other dominant species. The ensiling process increased the concentrations of 
21 flavones, 16 flavonols, 16 flavonoids, 14 flavanones and 9 isoflavones while
decreased other 32 flavones and 11 anthocyanins, which mainly modulated by the
"isoflavonoid biosynthesis" and "flavonoid biosynthesis" pathways. The inoculant 
L. plantarum mainly reduced the concentrations of 10 flavones. Compared with the 
control, the inoculant L. plantarum mainly affected the metabolism pathways
related to carbohydrates and nitrogen.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123910 
PMID: 32750640 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

