
1. Foods. 2020 Aug 20;9(9). pii: E1146. doi: 10.3390/foods9091146.

Effect of Pulsed Electric Fields on the Growth and Acidification Kinetics of
Lactobacillus delbrueckii Subsp. bulgaricus.

Peng K(1), Koubaa M(2), Bals O(1), Vorobiev E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sorbonne University, Université de Technologie de Compiègne, ESCOM, EA 4297
TIMR, Centre de Recherche Royallieu, CS 60319, CEDEX 60203 Compiègne, France.
(2)ESCOM, UTC, EA 4297 TIMR, 1 Allée du Réseau Jean-Marie Buckmaster, 60200
Compiègne, France.

The aim of this work was to investigate the effect of pulsed electric fields
(PEF) on the growth and acidification kinetics of Lactobacillus delbrueckii
subsp. bulgaricus CFL1 during fermentation. The PEF treatments were applied
during the fermentation process using a recirculation pump and a PEF treatment
chamber coupled with a PEF generator. The medium flow rate through the chamber
was first optimized to obtain the same growth and acidification kinetics than the
control fermentation without medium recirculation. Different PEF intensities
(60-428 V cm-1) were then applied to the culture medium to study the impact of
PEF on the cells' behavior. The growth and acidification kinetics were recorded
during the fermentation and the specific growth rates µ, pH, and acidification
rate (dpH/dt) were assessed. The results obtained showed a biphasic growth by
applying high PEF intensities (beyond 285 V cm-1) with the presence of two
maximal specific growth rates and a decrease in the acidification activities. It 
was demonstrated that the cells were stressed during the PEF treatment, but
presented an accelerated growth after stopping it, leading thereby to similar
absorbance and pH at the end of the fermentation. These results show the great
potential of PEF technology to be applied to generate low acidified products by
performing PEF-assisted fermentations.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9091146 
PMID: 32825249 

