
1. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2020 Mar;12(1):91-101. doi:
10.1007/s12602-019-09531-y.

Characterization, Toxicity, and Optimization for the Growth and Production of
Bacteriocin-like Substances by Lactobacillus curvatus.

Funck GD(1), de Lima Marques J(2), da Silva Dannenberg G(1), Dos Santos Cruxen
CE(1), Sehn CP(3), Prigol M(3), Silva MRP(3), da Silva WP(1)(2), Fiorentini
ÂM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agroindustrial Science and Technology, Federal University of
Pelotas, P.O. Box: 354, Pelotas, RS, 96010-900, Brazil.
(2)Center for Technology Development, Federal University of Pelotas, P.O. Box:
354, Pelotas, RS, 96010-900, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Pharmacological and Toxicological Reviews Applied to Bioactive
Molecules-LaftamBio Pampa, Federal University of Pampa, Itaqui, RS, 97650-000,
Brazil.
(4)Department of Agroindustrial Science and Technology, Federal University of
Pelotas, P.O. Box: 354, Pelotas, RS, 96010-900, Brazil. angefiore@gmail.com.

This study aimed to characterize, evaluate toxicity and optimize the conditions
for the growth and production of bacteriocin-like substances by Lactobacillus
curvatus P99. The antibacterial activity of the cell-free supernatant (CFS)
containing bacteriocin-like substances was evaluated by the agar diffusion
technique. The stability of the CFS was also examined after heat treatment,
refrigeration, freezing, pH variations, and treatment with different chemical
substances. The toxic effect of CFS on Drosophila melanogaster diet was
determined by calculating the survival rate of the flies. The effects of pH,
temperature, and incubation time were the parameters used to optimize cell growth
and production of bacteriocin-like substances through response surface
methodology. The CFS was stable for 36 weeks under freezing and refrigeration, as
well as under heat treatment, in acidic and basic pH and for all chemical
substances tested. Fewer than 50,000 AU/mL of CFS added to D. melanogaster diet
showed no toxic effect. The optimum growth condition was pH 6.3 at 29.3 °C for
18.6 h, and the optimum production of bacteriocin-like substances was under
pH 6.22 at 30.6 °C for 17.9 h. The data on the optimization of cell growth and
the characterization and optimization of bacteriocin-like substances provided
information to support the industrial-scale production of this microorganism and 
its metabolites.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-019-09531-y 
PMID: 30843169 

