
1. Curr Res Food Sci. 2020 Feb 11;3:9-18. doi: 10.1016/j.crfs.2020.01.002.
eCollection 2020 Nov.

Techno-functional characterization of indigenous Lactobacillus isolates from the 
traditional fermented foods of Meghalaya, India.

Das S(1), Mishra BK(1), Hati S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rural Development and Agricultural Production, North- Eastern
Hill University, Tura Campus, Tura, 794 001, Meghalaya, India.
(2)Department of Dairy Microbiology, S.M.C College of Dairy Science, Anand
Agricultural University, Anand, 388 110, Gujarat, India.

The rural tribal people of Meghalaya depend mostly on their ethnic fermented
foods as a part of their regular diet and these fermented foods are considered to
be a hub of healthy microorganisms. However, the efficacy of probiotic
microorganisms is considered to be population-specific because of gut microflora 
variation in food habits and specific host-microbial interactions. Hence, a
strong need for exploring novel indigenous microorganisms with rich probiotic
potentiality is required. A few indigenous Lactobacillus isolates (from
traditional fermented foods of Meghalaya) were studied extensively for its
technological and probiotic attributes. The isolates could survive at pH 2-3
(L. fermentum K16 showed high cell count: pH 2-5.12 log CFU/ml; pH 3-5.76 log
CFU/ml), against bile salts (L. fermentum K7 showed high cell count-5.36 log
CFU/ml), gastric juices (pepsin and trypsin), and intestinal juice (pancreatin). 
The isolates showed α-galactosidase activity from 0.104-0.412 μM/ml and
β-glucosidase activity ranging from 0.122-0.409 μM/ml. Exopolysaccharide
production was in between 410 and 950 mg/L. Cell surface hydrophobicity was
71.57% (L. rhamnosus K4E) and auto-aggregation was 83% (L. fermentum K16) during 
the study. Highest proteolytic activity (0.671 nm) and cholesterol assimilation
(52.57%) was exhibited by L. fermentum K16. The isolates showed high free radical
scavenging activity by ABTS method up to 80.78% by isolate L. fermentum K7.
Antibacterial activity and co-aggregation efficacy was also tested against
B. cereus, E. faecalis, S. dysenteriae, S. aureus, E. coli, L. monocytogenes, S. 
typhi. These indigenous Lactobacillus isolates with high probiotic potentials
could be exploited in the development of the traditional fermented foods of
Meghalaya.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crfs.2020.01.002 
PMCID: PMC7473377
PMID: 32914116 

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors has any conflicts of interest
to declare.

