
1. Pathology. 2020 Oct;52(6):700-707. doi: 10.1016/j.pathol.2020.06.009. Epub 2020
Aug 20.

Genomic analysis of Lactococcus garvieae isolates.

Lin YS(1), Kweh KH(2), Koh TH(3), Lau QC(2), Abdul Rahman NB(4).

Author information: 
(1)Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore; 
School of Life Science and Chemical Technology, Ngee Ann Polytechnic, Singapore.
(2)School of Life Science and Chemical Technology, Ngee Ann Polytechnic,
Singapore.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore. Electronic 
address: nurdyana.abdul.rahman@sgh.com.sg.

Lactococcus garvieae is a well-known fish pathogen, and in recent years, a human 
pathogen of increasing clinical significance. However, not much is known about
the variances in characteristics of strains isolated locally and overseas. This
study aims at conducting comparative genomic analysis on local and overseas
L. garvieae isolates, to further understand the phylogenetic and virulence
variances between the two groups. The genomic DNA of 11 local L. garvieae
isolates (fish 6, human 5) were sequenced, annotated and typed using multi-locus 
sequence typing (MLST). A total of six novel sequence types (STs) were found in
the local isolates. Genotypic overlapping of the STs was observed between local
fish and human isolates with overseas fish, food and human clinical isolates.
Thereby, suggesting a possible transmission between fish or food and humans.
Virulence genes (putative internalin and putative mucus adhesin) were found to be
specific to genomic clusters (GC), GC2 and GC3. A higher incidence of resistance 
genes was also observed in local isolates (n=8, 72.72%) when compared to the
overseas isolates (n=7, 41.18%). This study represents the first evidence of
genetic variances amongst local and overseas isolates, and virulence
characteristics specific to the phylogeny of L. garvieae.

Copyright © 2020 Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pathol.2020.06.009 
PMID: 32829891 

