
1. Food Chem. 2020 Aug 28;340:127922. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.127922. [Epub
ahead of print]

Effect of the apple cultivar on cloudy apple juice fermented by a mixture of
Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus plantarum, and Lactobacillus fermentum.

Peng W(1), Meng D(1), Yue T(1), Wang Z(1), Gao Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Food Science and Engineering, Northwest A&F University, 712100
Yangling, Shaanxi, People's Republic of China.
(2)College of Food Science and Engineering, Northwest A&F University, 712100
Yangling, Shaanxi, People's Republic of China. Electronic address:
gzp5988@163.com.

This study aimed to evaluate the fermentation performance of a mixture of
Lactobacillus spp. in cloudy apple juices from nine cultivars. The results showed
that cultivar influenced most the properties of the fermented cloudy apple juice.
The fermented cloudy apple juices made from Changfu had the highest viable
bacterial count and acetic acid contents (6.37 × 108 CFU/mL and 2.67 mg/mL,
respectively). It also had higher sensory score, second only to Huaniu. The
highest total sugar consumption, utilising fructose, glucose, and sucrose
(33.07 mg/mL), was seen with Golden Delicious. Qinguan fermented cloudy apple
juice had the highest contents of lactic acid (6.74 mg/mL) and total esters
(921.36 μg/L); d-limonene also detected in this fermented cloudy apple juice. Of 
the nine cultivars examined in this study, Changfu, Qinguan, and Golden Delicious
were the most suitable for producing fermented cloudy apple juice with better
taste, higher viable count and more intense aroma.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.127922 
PMID: 32889211 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

