
1. Microbiologyopen. 2020 Feb;9(2):e971. doi: 10.1002/mbo3.971. Epub 2019 Nov 29.

Does glucose affect the de-esterification of methyl ferulate by Lactobacillus
buchneri?

Mogodiniyai Kasmaei K(1), Schlosser D(2), Sträuber H(2), Kleinsteuber S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Nutrition and management, Swedish University of
Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala, Sweden.
(2)Department of Environmental Microbiology, Helmholtz Centre for Environmental
Research - UFZ, Leipzig, Germany.

Silage, the fermented product from anaerobic storage of forage crops with high
water contents (50%-70%), is normally used as animal feed but also for the
production of biofuels and value-added products. To improve the utilization of
plant fibers during ensiling, previous attempts have aimed at breaking linkages
between lignin and hemicellulose by use of Lactobacillus buchneri LN 4017 (ATCC
PTA-6138), a feruloyl esterase (FAE)-producing strain, but results have been
inconsistent. Normally, there are sufficient amounts of readily available
substrates for bacterial growth in silage. We thus hypothesized that the
inconsistent effect of L. buchneri LN 4017 on the digestibility of silage fibers 
is due to the catabolic repression of FAE activity by substrates present in
silage (e.g., glucose). To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the effect of
glucose on the de-esterification of methyl ferulate (MF), a model substrate used 
for FAE activity assays. At three glucose:MF ratios (0:1, 1:1, and 13:1), the
bacteria continued hydrolyzing MF with increasing glucose:MF ratios, indicating
that the de-esterification reaction was not repressed by glucose. We therefore
conclude that the de-esterification activity of L. buchneri LN 4017 is not
repressed by silage substrates during ensiling.

© 2019 The Authors. MicrobiologyOpen published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mbo3.971 
PMCID: PMC7002112
PMID: 31782612 

