
1. Cell Microbiol. 2020 Sep 17:e13264. doi: 10.1111/cmi.13264. [Epub ahead of print]

Distinctive probiotic features share common TLR2-dependent signalling in
intestinal epithelial cells.

Paveljšek D(1), Ivičak-Kocjan K(2), Treven P(1), Benčina M(2), Jerala R(2),
Rogelj I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnical Faculty, Department of Animal Science, University of Ljubljana,
Domžale, Slovenia.
(2)Department of Synthetic Biology and Immunology, National Institute of
Chemistry, Ljubljana, Slovenia.

The underlying mechanisms of probiotics and postbiotics are not well understood, 
but it is known that both affect the adaptive and innate immune responses. In
addition, there is a growing concept that some probiotic strains have common core
mechanisms that provide certain health benefits. Here, we aimed to elucidate the 
signalization of the probiotic bacterial strains Lactobacillus paragasseri K7,
Limosilactobacillus fermentum L930BB, Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. animalis
IM386 and Lactiplantibacillus plantarum WCFS1. We showed in in vitro experiments 
that the tested probiotics exhibit common TLR2- and TLR10-dependent downstream
signalling cascades involving inhibition of NF-κB signal transduction. Under
inflammatory conditions, the probiotics activated phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase
(PI3K)/Akt anti-apoptotic pathways and protein kinase C (PKC)-dependent pathways,
which led to regulation of the actin cytoskeleton and tight junctions. These
pathways contribute to the regeneration of the intestinal epithelium and
modulation of the mucosal immune system, which, together with the inhibition of
canonical TLR signalling, promote general immune tolerance. With this study we
identified shared probiotic mechanisms and were the first to pinpoint the role of
anti-inflammatory probiotic signalling through TLR10.

© 2020 The Authors. Cellular Microbiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cmi.13264 
PMID: 32945079 

