
1. Animals (Basel). 2020 Sep 3;10(9). pii: E1575. doi: 10.3390/ani10091575.

Effects of Class IIa Bacteriocin-Producing Lactobacillus Species on Fermentation 
Quality and Aerobic Stability of Alfalfa Silage.

Li F(1), Ding Z(1), Adesogan AT(2), Ke W(1), Jiang Y(2), Bai J(1), Mudassar S(1),
Zhang Y(1), Huang W(1), Guo X(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Grassland Agro-ecosystems, College of Pastoral
Agriculture Science and Technology, School of Life Sciences, Probiotics and
Biological Feed Research Centre, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China.
(2)Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611,
USA.

The effects of two strains of class IIa bacteriocin-producing lactic acid
bacteria, Lactobacillus delbrueckii F17 and Lactobacillus plantarum (BNCC
336943), or a non-bacteriocin Lactobacillus plantarum MTD/1 (NCIMB 40027), on
fermentation quality, microbial counts, and aerobic stability of alfalfa silage
were investigated. Alfalfa was harvested at the initial flowering stage, wilted
to a dry matter concentration of approximately 32%, and chopped to 1 to 2 cm
length. Chopped samples were treated with nothing (control, CON), Lactobacillus
delbrueckii F17 (F17), Lactobacillus plantarum (BNCC 336943) (LPB), or
Lactobacillus plantarum MTD/1 (NCIMB 40027) (LPN), each at an application rate of
1 × 106 colony-forming units/g of fresh weight. Each treatment was ensiled in
quadruplicate in vacuum-sealed polyethylene bags packed with 500 g of fresh
alfalfa per bag and ensiled at ambient temperature (25 ± 2 °C) for 3, 7, 14, 30, 
and 60 days. The samples were then subjected to an aerobic stability test after
60 days of ensiling. Compared with the CON silage, the inoculants reduced the pH 
after 14 days of ensiling. After 60 days, pH was lowest in the LPB-treated
silage, followed by the F17 and LPN-treated silages. Inoculation of F17 increased
concentrations of lactic acid in silages fermented for 7, 14, 30, and 60 days
relative to other treatments, except for the LPN-treated silages ensiled for 30
and 60 days, in which the lactic acid concentrations were similar to that of F17 
silage. Application of F17 and LPB decreased the number of yeast and mold
relative to CON and LPN-treated silages. Compared with the CON silage,
inoculant-treated silages had greater aerobic stability, water-soluble
carbohydrate, and crude protein concentrations, and lower neutral detergent
fiber, amino acid nitrogen, and ammonia nitrogen concentrations. The LPB-treated 
silage had the greatest aerobic stability followed by the F17-treated silage.
Both class IIa bacteriocin producing inoculants improved alfalfa silage
fermentation quality, reduced the growth of yeasts and molds, and improved the
aerobic stability of the ensiled forage to a greater extent than the proven LPN
inoculant. However, higher crude protein concentration and lower ammonia nitrogen
concentration were observed in LPN-treated silage relative to other treatments.

DOI: 10.3390/ani10091575 
PMID: 32899438 

