
1. mSystems. 2020 Aug 4;5(4). pii: e00190-20. doi: 10.1128/mSystems.00190-20.

Bactopia: a Flexible Pipeline for Complete Analysis of Bacterial Genomes.

Petit RA 3rd(1), Read TD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Emory University
School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Emory University
School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia, USA tread@emory.edu.

Sequencing of bacterial genomes using Illumina technology has become such a
standard procedure that often data are generated faster than can be conveniently 
analyzed. We created a new series of pipelines called Bactopia, built using
Nextflow workflow software, to provide efficient comparative genomic analyses for
bacterial species or genera. Bactopia consists of a data set setup step (Bactopia
Data Sets [BaDs]), which creates a series of customizable data sets for the
species of interest, the Bactopia Analysis Pipeline (BaAP), which performs
quality control, genome assembly, and several other functions based on the
available data sets and outputs the processed data to a structured directory
format, and a series of Bactopia Tools (BaTs) that perform specific
postprocessing on some or all of the processed data. BaTs include pan-genome
analysis, computing average nucleotide identity between samples, extracting and
profiling the 16S genes, and taxonomic classification using highly conserved
genes. It is expected that the number of BaTs will increase to fill specific
applications in the future. As a demonstration, we performed an analysis of 1,664
public Lactobacillus genomes, focusing on Lactobacillus crispatus, a species that
is a common part of the human vaginal microbiome. Bactopia is an open source
system that can scale from projects as small as one bacterial genome to ones
including thousands of genomes and that allows for great flexibility in choosing 
comparison data sets and options for downstream analysis. Bactopia code can be
accessed at https://www.github.com/bactopia/bactopiaIMPORTANCE It is now
relatively easy to obtain a high-quality draft genome sequence of a bacterium,
but bioinformatic analysis requires organization and optimization of multiple
open source software tools. We present Bactopia, a pipeline for bacterial genome 
analysis, as an option for processing bacterial genome data. Bactopia also
automates downloading of data from multiple public sources and species-specific
customization. Because the pipeline is written in the Nextflow language, analyses
can be scaled from individual genomes on a local computer to thousands of genomes
using cloud resources. As a usage example, we processed 1,664 Lactobacillus
genomes from public sources and used comparative analysis workflows (Bactopia
Tools) to identify and analyze members of the L. crispatus species.

Copyright Â© 2020 Petit and Read.

DOI: 10.1128/mSystems.00190-20 
PMCID: PMC7406220
PMID: 32753501 

