
1. Meat Sci. 2021 Jan;171:108234. doi: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2020.108234. Epub 2020 Jul 
5.

Effect of long-term dietary probiotic Lactobacillus reuteri 1 or antibiotics on
meat quality, muscular amino acids and fatty acids in pigs.

Tian Z(1), Cui Y(1), Lu H(1), Wang G(1), Ma X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Animal Science, Guangdong Academy of Agricultural Sciences, State
Key Laboratory of Livestock and Poultry Breeding, Key Laboratory of Animal
Nutrition and Feed Science in South China, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Affairs, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Breeding and Nutrition,
Guangdong Engineering Technology Research Center of animal Meat quality and
Safety Control and Evaluation, Guangzhou 510640, China.
(2)Institute of Animal Science, Guangdong Academy of Agricultural Sciences, State
Key Laboratory of Livestock and Poultry Breeding, Key Laboratory of Animal
Nutrition and Feed Science in South China, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Affairs, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Breeding and Nutrition,
Guangdong Engineering Technology Research Center of animal Meat quality and
Safety Control and Evaluation, Guangzhou 510640, China. Electronic address:
xianyongm@gmail.com.

This study investigated effects of 175-d dietary treatment with Lactobacillus
reuteri 1 (LR1) or antibiotics (olaquindox and aureomycin) on the longissimus
thoracis (LT) of pigs. Results showed that antibiotics decreased pork quality by 
increasing drip loss, shear force, and altering myofiber characteristics
including diameter, cross-sectional area and myosin heavy chain isoforms compared
to LR1. Pigs fed antibiotics had lower muscle contents of free glutamic acid,
inosinic acid, and higher glutamine compared to pigs fed the controls and LR1
diets (P ≤ .05). Furthermore, antibiotics decreased free isoleucine, leucine,
methionine in LT compared to the control (P ≤ .05). Compared to antibiotics, LR1 
likely improved protein synthesis by modulating expression of amino acid
transport and ribosomal protein S6 kinase 1 (S6K1) genes, and altered fatty acid 
profile by regulating metabolic pathways. Overall, LR1 improved pork quality
compared to antibiotics by decreasing drip loss and shear force, increasing
inosinic acid and glutamic acid that may improve flavor, and altering muscle
fiber characteristics.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2020.108234 
PMID: 32906013 

