
1. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2019 Nov 29;7:377. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2019.00377.
eCollection 2019.

Whole Body Vibration Triggers a Change in the Mutual Shaping State of Intestinal 
Microbiota and Body's Immunity.

Song N(1)(2), Liu X(1)(2), Feng Q(3)(4)(5), Xu M(6), Lan X(3)(4), Li M(3)(4), Liu
R(6), Li C(7), Dong T(8), Wang D(1)(2), Liu S(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Basic Medical Science, Shandong University, Jinan, China.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Binzhou Medical University Hospital,
Binzhou, China.
(3)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Oral Tissue Regeneration, Department of 
Human Microbiome, School and Hospital of Stomatology, Shandong University, Jinan,
China.
(4)Shandong Engineering Laboratory for Dental Materials and Oral Tissue
Regeneration, Department of Human Microbiome, School and Hospital of Stomatology,
Shandong University, Jinan, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Technology, Shandong University, Qingdao,
China.
(6)School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Shandong University, Jinan,
China.
(7)Department of Evidence Identification, Institute of Forensic Science of China,
Beijing, China.
(8)Department of Breast Thyroid Surgery, Shandong Provincial Hospital, Shandong
University, Jinan, China.

Whole body vibration (WBV) is a non-invasive physical therapy that has recently
been included in the hospital's patient rehabilitation training catalog, but its 
health effects have not been sufficiently studied. In the present study, to
examine the possible effects of WBV on immune cell differentiation, the IFN,
IL-4,-17, F4/80 and CD3,-4,-8,-11b,-11c,-19 markers were used to characterizing
the cells in mouse spleen. The results showed that the CD4 and CD25 positive
lymphocytes in the spleen were significantly increased in the WBV group, and the 
population of Treg cells was enhanced significantly in response to WBV. Since the
differentiation in immune cells is usually associated with microbiota, therefore 
the intestinal flora was characterized in mice and human individuals. The results
indicated that WBV significantly reduced the α-diversity of mouse intestinal
microbiota. Moreover, the principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) results indicated 
that the β-diversities of both mice and human fecal microbiota increased after
WBV. Analysis of the bacterial composition indicated that the contents of a
variety of bacteria changed in mice upon the stimulation of vibration, such as
Lactobacillus animalis in mice, and Lactobacillus paraplantarum and Lactobacillus
sanfranciscensis in human. The succeeding correlation analysis revealed that some
bacteria with significant content variations were correlated to the regulatory T 
cell differentiation in mice and physical characteristics in human. Our research 
will provide the basis for future non-invasive treatment of microbial and immune 
related diseases.

Copyright © 2019 Song, Liu, Feng, Xu, Lan, Li, Liu, Li, Dong, Wang and Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2019.00377 
PMCID: PMC6895539
PMID: 31850333 

