
1. J Viral Hepat. 2020 Jun 5. doi: 10.1111/jvh.13344. [Epub ahead of print]

Altered faecal microbiota on the expression of Th cells responses in the
exacerbation of patients with hepatitis E infection.

Wu J(1)(2), Huang F(3), Ling Z(1), Liu S(1), Liu J(4), Fan J(1), Yu J(1), Wang
W(2), Jin X(1), Meng Y(5), Cao H(1)(6), Li L(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases,
National Clinical Research Center for Infectious Diseases, Collaborative
Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, The First
Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The First People's Hospital of Yancheng
City, Yancheng, China.
(3)Medical School, Kunming University of Science and Technology, Kunming, China.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The Fifth People's Hospital of Wuxi,
Affiliated to Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.
(5)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Suzhou Vocational Health College, Suzhou,
China.
(6)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Aging and
Physic-Chemical Injury Diseases, Hangzhou, China.

Fulminant hepatitis E may lead to acute liver failure (ALF). Perturbations of
intestinal microbiota are related to severe liver disease. To study the
correlations between faecal microbiota and the occurrence and exacerbation of
hepatitis E virus (HEV) infection, we characterized 24 faecal samples from 12
patients with acute hepatitis E (AHE) and 12 patients with HEV-ALF using
high-throughput sequencing. We found both the alpha and beta diversity indices
showed no significant differences between the AHE and HEV-ALF groups. Several
predominant taxa were significantly different between the AHE and HEV-ALF groups.
Most notably, the HEV-ALF group had increased levels of Gammaproteobacteria,
Proteobacteria, Xanthomonadceae and Stenotrophomonas, but reduced levels of
Firmicutes, Streptococcus, Subdoligranulum and Lactobacillus, compared with the
AHE group. The levels of Lactobacillaceae and Gammaproteobacteria could be used
to distinguish patients with HEV-ALF from those with AHE. In addition, the level 
of Th lymphocytes was significantly lower in the HEV-ALF group than in the AHE
group. The relative abundances of Lactobacillaceae and Gammaproteobacteria were
positively correlated with Th lymphocytes, serum international normalized ratio
(INR) and hepatic encephalopathy severity. Moreover, surviving patients had
higher levels of Lactobacillus mucosae than deceased patients. Our study
demonstrated that the presence of altered faecal microbiota is associated with
exacerbation of HEV infection; this finding may be useful for exploring the
interactions among faecal microbiota, immune responses, mechanisms of infection
and progression in patients with HEV, as well as for the development of novel
diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.

Â© 2020 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jvh.13344 
PMID: 32500937 

