
1. Molecules. 2020 Sep 29;25(19). pii: E4481. doi: 10.3390/molecules25194481.

Screening of Lactobacillus plantarum Subsp. plantarum with Potential Probiotic
Activities for Inhibiting ETEC K88 in Weaned Piglets.

Wang W(1)(2), Ma H(1)(2), Yu H(1), Qin G(1), Tan Z(1), Wang Y(1), Pang H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Henan Key Lab Ion Beam Bioengineering, School of Agricultural Sciences,
Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450052, China.
(2)School of Physics and Microelectronics, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou
450052, China.

For screening excellent lactic acid bacteria (LAB) strains to inhibit
enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) K88, inhibitory activities of more than
1100 LAB strains isolated from different materials, and kept in the lab, were
evaluated in this study. Nine strains with inhibition zones, at least 22.00 mm
(including that of a hole puncher, 10.00 mm), and good physiological and
biochemical characteristics identified by 16S DNA gene sequencing and recA gene
multiple detection, were assigned to Lactobacillus (L.) plantarum subsp.
plantarum (5), L. fermentum (1), L. reuteri (1), Weissella cibaria (1) and
Enterococcus faecalis (1), respectively. As investigated for their tolerance
abilities and safety, only strain ZA3 possessed high hydrophobicity and
auto-aggregation abilities, had high survival rate in low pH, bile salt
environment, and gastrointestinal (GI) fluids, was sensitive to ampicillin, and
resistant to norfloxacin and amikacin, without hemolytic activity, and did not
carry antibiotic resistance genes, but exhibited broad spectrum activity against 
a wide range of microorganisms. Antibacterial substance may attribute to organic 
acids, especially lactic acid and acetic acid. The results indicated that the
selected strain L. plantarum subsp. plantarum ZA3 could be considered a potential
probiotic to inhibit ETEC K88 in weaned piglets for further research.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25194481 
PMID: 33003556 

