
1. Poult Sci. 2020 Oct;99(10):4776-4785. doi: 10.1016/j.psj.2020.06.061. Epub 2020
Jul 22.

In ovo supplementation of chitooligosaccharide and chlorella polysaccharide
affects cecal microbial community, metabolic pathways, and fermentation
metabolites in broiler chickens.

Zhang J(1), Cai K(2), Mishra R(3), Jha R(4).

Author information: 
(1)College of Food Science and Technology, Hainan University, Haikou, Hainan
Province 570228, China; Department of Human Nutrition, Food and Animal Sciences, 
College of Tropical Agriculture and Human Resources, University of Hawaii at
Manoa, Honolulu, HI 96822, USA.
(2)College of Food Science and Technology, Hainan University, Haikou, Hainan
Province 570228, China.
(3)Department of Human Nutrition, Food and Animal Sciences, College of Tropical
Agriculture and Human Resources, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI
96822, USA.
(4)Department of Human Nutrition, Food and Animal Sciences, College of Tropical
Agriculture and Human Resources, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI
96822, USA. Electronic address: rjha@hawaii.edu.

The chitooligosaccharide (COS) and chlorella polysaccharide (CPS) have been used 
as feed supplements in the poultry industry for improving growth performance and 
immunity. However, the benefits of these prebiotics on the gut health of chickens
when used in early nutrition are unknown. This study evaluated the effects of in 
ovo feeding of COS and CPS on the cecal microbiome, metabolic pathways, and
fermentation metabolites of chickens. A total of 240 fertile eggs were divided
into 6 groups (n = 4; 10 eggs/replicate): 1) no-injection control, 2) normal
saline control, 3) COS 5 mg, 4) COS 20 mg, 5) CPS 5 mg, and 6) CPS 20 mg
injection. On day 12.5 of egg incubation, test substrate was injected into the
amniotic sac of eggs in respective treatments. The hatched chicks were raised for
21 D under standard husbandry practices. On day 3 and 21, cecal digesta were
collected to determine microbiota by shotgun metagenomic sequencing and
short-chain fatty acids by gas chromatography. The cecal microbial composition
was not different (P > 0.05) among the treatment groups on day 3 but was
different (P < 0.05) on day 21. At the species level, the
polysaccharide-utilizing bacteria including Lactobacillus johnsonii, Bacteroides 
coprocola, and Bacteroides salanitronis were higher in the COS group, whereas the
relative abundance of some opportunistic pathogenic bacteria were lower than
those in the CPS and control groups. At the functional level, the pathways of
gluconeogenesis, L-isoleucine degradation, L-histidine biosynthesis, and fatty
acid biosynthesis were enriched in the COS group. In addition, propionic acid
content was higher (P < 0.05) in the COS group. A network based on the
correlation between the COS and other factors was constructed to illuminate the
potential action mechanism of the COS in chicken early nutrition. In conclusion, 
in ovo inoculation of COS 5 mg showed positive effects on the cecal microbiota,
metabolic pathways, and propionic acid, thus can be used as in ovo feeding to
modulate the gut health of chickens.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psj.2020.06.061 
PMID: 32988512 

