
1. Vet Sci. 2020 Aug 14;7(3). pii: E112. doi: 10.3390/vetsci7030112.

Lactobacillus johnsonii L531 Ameliorates Escherichia coli-Induced Cell Damage via
Inhibiting NLRP3 Inflammasome Activity and Promoting ATG5/ATG16L1-Mediated
Autophagy in Porcine Mammary Epithelial Cells.

Zou YJ(1), Xu JJ(1), Wang X(1), Zhu YH(1), Wu Q(2), Wang JF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine,
China Agricultural University, Beijing 100193, China.
(2)College of Animal Science and Technology, Beijing University of Agriculture,
Beijing 102206, China.

Escherichia coli (E. coli), a main mastitis-causing pathogen in sows, leads to
mammary tissue damage. Here, we explored the effects of Lactobacillus johnsonii
L531 on attenuating E. coli-induced inflammatory damage in porcine mammary
epithelial cells (PMECs). L. johnsonii L531 pretreatment reduced E. coli adhesion
to PMECs by competitive exclusion and the production of inhibitory factors and
decreased E. coli-induced destruction of cellular morphology and ultrastructure. 
E. coli induced activation of NLRP3 inflammasome associated with increased
expression of NLRP3, ASC, and cleaved caspase-1, however, L. johnsonii L531
inhibited E. coli-induced activation of NLRP3 inflammasome. Up-regulation of
interleukin (Il)-1Î², Il-6, Il-8, Il-18, tumor necrosis factor alpha, and
chemokine Cxcl2 expression after E. coli infection was attenuated by L. johnsonii
L531. E. coli infection inhibited autophagy, whereas L. johnsonii L531 reversed
the inhibitory effect of E. coli on autophagy by decreasing the expression of
autophagic receptor SQSTM1/p62 and increasing the expression of autophagy-related
proteins ATG5, ATG16L1, and light chain 3 protein by Western blotting analysis.
Our findings suggest that L. johnsonii L531 pretreatment restricts NLRP3
inflammasome activity and induces autophagy through promoting
ATG5/ATG16L1-mediated autophagy, thereby protecting against E. coli-induced
inflammation and cell damage in PMECs.

DOI: 10.3390/vetsci7030112 
PMID: 32823867 

