
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Sep;104(17):7437-7455. doi:
10.1007/s00253-020-10749-y. Epub 2020 Jul 14.

Lactobacillus salivarius LI01 encapsulated in alginate-pectin microgels
ameliorates D-galactosamine-induced acute liver injury in rats.

Zhuge A(1)(2), Li B(1)(2), Yuan Y(1)(2), Lv L(1)(2), Li Y(1)(2), Wu J(1)(2), Yang
L(1)(2), Bian X(1)(2), Wang K(1)(2), Wang Q(1)(2), Yan R(1)(2), Zhu X(1)(2), Li
L(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis, National Clinical Research Center for
Infectious Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Collaborative Innocation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious
Diseases, Hangzhou, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis, National Clinical Research Center for
Infectious Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou, China. ljli@zju.edu.cn.
(4)Collaborative Innocation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious
Diseases, Hangzhou, China. ljli@zju.edu.cn.

Acute liver failure is a clinical emergency associated with high mortality.
Accumulating evidence indicates that gut microbiota participates in the
progression of liver injury, and preventive therapies based on altering gut
microbiota are of great interest. Previous studies demonstrated that
Lactobacillus salivarius LI01 attenuates hepatic injury, though efficiency in
curtailed in the harsh environment in the gastrointestinal tract. In this study, 
a system to encapsulate LI01 in alginate-pectin (AP) microgels was investigated. 
Encapsulation significantly enhances probiotic viability for long-term storage
and heat treatment, and in simulated gastrointestinal fluids (SGF or SIF) and
bile salt solutions. Acute liver injury was induced in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats
by D-galactosamine (D-GaIN) injection following pretreatment with probiotics.
Liver and gut barrier function, cytokines, liver and gut histology, bacterial
translocation, and gut microbiota were assessed. Administration of encapsulated
LI01 more effectively upregulates hepatic anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 and
TLR-3, restores expressions of gut barrier biomarkers Claudin-1 and MUC2 and
attenuates destruction of mucosal ultrastructure compared with unencapsulated
probiotics pretreatment. Pretreatment with AP-LI01 microgels altered the
microbial community, decreasing the abundance of pathogenic taxa
Ruminiclostridium, Dorea and Ruminococcaceae_UCG-004 and enriching beneficial
taxa Ruminococcaceae_UCG-014, Eubacterium, and Prevotella_1 that produce
short-chain fatty acids. These results suggest that AP encapsulation of LI01
boosts viability and attenuates liver injury by reducing inflammation and
restoring intestinal barrier function. These beneficial effects are probably due 
to alternation of gut flora. These findings provide new insight into
encapsulation technology and prevention of liver failure. KEY POINTS: •
Alginate-pectin encapsulation enhances the viability of Lactobacillus salivarius 
LI01 under simulated commercial conditions and simulated gastrointestinal
environment. • AP-LI01 microgel attenuates hepatic and intestinal inflammation
and restores gut barrier function. • AP-LI01 microgel alters gut microbial
community with increased SCFAs producers and decreased pathogenic microbes. •
Beneficial improvements after administration of probiotics are highly associated 
with alternation of gut microbial community.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10749-y 
PMID: 32666187 

