
1. Foods. 2020 Sep 19;9(9). pii: E1322. doi: 10.3390/foods9091322.

Technological Feature Assessment of Lactic Acid Bacteria Isolated from Cricket
Powder's Spontaneous Fermentation as Potential Starters for Cricket-Wheat Bread
Production.

Galli V(1), Venturi M(2), Pini N(1), Granchi L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agriculture, Food, Environment and Forestry (DAGRI), University 
of Florence, Via San Bonaventura n. 13, 50145 Florence, Italy.
(2)FoodMicroTeam s.r.l., Via di Santo Spirito n. 14, 50125 Florence, Italy.

The bacterial community profile of cricket powder highlighted the presence of
four main genera: Bacteroides spp., Parabacteroides spp., Lactococcus spp., and
Enterococcus spp. The spontaneous fermentation of cricket powder allowed for the 
isolation and characterization of seven lactic acid bacteria strains belonging to
six species: Latilactobacillus curvatus, Lactiplantibacillus plantarum,
Latilactobacillus sakei, Lactococcus garvieae, Weissella confusa, and
Enterococcus durans. The strains were characterized and selected according to
different technological properties. L. plantarum CR L1 and L. curvatus CR L13
showed the best performance in terms of general aminopeptidase activity,
acidification, and growth rate in MRS broth and in dough with cricket powder and 
wheat flour, as well as robustness during consecutive backslopping. Thus, they
were used as starter-mixed to produce sourdough to manufacture bread fortified
with 20% cricket powder. The addition of cricket powder led to a significant
increase of protein (up to 94%) and lipid content, from 0.7 up to 6 g/100 g of
bread. Spontaneous fermentation represents a source of microbial diversity that
can be exploited in order to obtain potential starters for food with innovative
ingredients. Edible insects powder can be successfully added in leavened baked
goods to enhance their nutritional value.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9091322 
PMID: 32961748 

