
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Sep 10;9(9). pii: E593. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9090593.

Synergistic Effects of Bacteriocin from Lactobacillus panis C-M2 Combined with
Dielectric Barrier Discharged Non-Thermal Plasma (DBD-NTP) on Morganella sp. in
Aquatic Foods.

Shan C(1)(2), Wu H(2), Zhou J(2), Yan W(1), Zhang J(1), Liu X(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Food Science and Technology, Nanjing Agricultural University,
Nanjing 210095, China.
(2)Institute of Agro-Product Processing, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, Nanjing 210014, China.

In this paper, Lactocin C-M2(C-M2) was used together with a new non-thermal
technology, non-thermal plasma sterilization (NTPS), to inactive the putrefactive
bacteria Morganella sp. wf-1 isolated from aquatic foods. The mechanism
underlining the action mode of C-M2 and NTPS was investigated, revealing that the
bacteriocin and NTPS had synergistic effects on the disinfection of Morganella
sp. wf-1. Compared with the bacteria cells treated by only C-M2 or NTPS, the
plasmolysis of cells treated by C-M2 and NTPS was to a larger extent. Moreover,
the cell permeability and the contents of UV-absorbing compounds and K+ released 
from the intra-cells was significantly higher for the C-M2 + NTPS treated cells
than the others (p < 0.05), and conversely was the SFA/UFA ratio (p < 0.05). The 
results on DNA damage showed that, 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine(8-OHdG) content in
C-M2 + NTPS treated cells was approximately 7 -fold and 2.5-fold greater than
those in the C-M2- and NTPS-treated cells, respectively, indicating furthermore
the eventual rupture of Morganella sp. wf-1 cells. The results showed the
potential of the application of the bacteriocin and NTPS in the food industry.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9090593 
PMID: 32927848 

