
1. Food Sci Anim Resour. 2020 Jul;40(4):613-627. doi: 10.5851/kosfa.2020.e38. Epub
2020 Jul 1.

Biochemical and Antioxidant Activity of Yogurt Supplemented with Paprika Juice of
Different Colors.

Hong H(1), Son YJ(1), Kwon SH(1), Kim SK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Science and Technology, Konkuk University, Seoul 05029,
Korea.

Paprika is known to contain polyphenolic compounds that have good antioxidant
properties. This study was conducted to investigate the benefits of adding
paprika juice of different colors to yogurt and to determine how paprika affects 
the quality characteristics of yogurt. Stirred yogurt samples supplemented with
different levels of red, orange, or yellow paprika juice were inoculated with
mixes of Streptococcus thermophilus and Lactobacillus delbrueckii ssp.
bulgaricus. Paprika addition decreased the pH but increased titratable acidity,
lactic acid bacteria (LAB) counts, total polyphenol content (TPC), levels of
vitamin A and C, and antioxidant activity. Proteolysis and viscosity of
paprika-containing yogurts were significantly higher than those of the control
yogurt without paprika juice (p<0.05). In particular, the viscosity of red
paprika yogurt was significantly higher than that of yogurts containing 5% orange
and yellow paprika juices (each p<0.05). The antioxidant activity of the methanol
extract of the yogurt containing 2.5% orange paprika juice was the highest.
Storage at 4°C for 15 days only slightly altered LAB counts, antioxidant
activity, and TPC of paprika yogurt. These results indicate that paprika could be
used as a natural food additive for the development of functional yogurts.

© Korean Society for Food Science of Animal Resources.

DOI: 10.5851/kosfa.2020.e38 
PMCID: PMC7372991
PMID: 32734268 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no potential conflicts of
interest.

