
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jul 8;11:1454. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01454. eCollection
2020.

Investigating the Mechanistic Differences of Obesity-Inducing Lactobacillus
kefiranofaciens M1 and Anti-obesity Lactobacillus mali APS1 by Microbolomics and 
Metabolomics.

Lin YC(1)(2), Chen YT(3), Li KY(2), Chen MJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Livestock Research Institute, Council of Agriculture, Executive Yuan, Tainan, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Animal Science and Technology, National Taiwan University,
Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Biotechnology, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.

Many studies have investigated the anti-obesity effects of probiotics in animal
models and humans. However, few studies have focused on the mechanisms of
obesity-inducing probiotics. In a previous study, we demonstrated that specific
bacterial strains isolated from kefir, Lactobacillus kefirnofaciens M1 and
Lactobacillus mali APS1, possess obesity and anti-obesity effects, respectively, 
in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obese mice. Thus, in the present study, we
systematically investigated whether APS1 and M1 affect energy homeostasis and
lipid metabolism in HFD-induced obese mice and how this might be achieved. We
observed that the M1/APS1 intervention influenced fat accumulation by regulating 
adipogenesis and inflammation-related marker expression both in vitro and in a
HFD induced C57BL/6J mice model. We also observed putative links between key taxa
and possible metabolic processes of the gut microbiota. Notably, families
Christensenellaceae and S24_7 were negatively correlated with body weight gain
through increase in the essential esterized carnitine for energy expenditure.
These results suggest the importance of specific probiotic interventions
affecting leanness and obesity of subjects under a HFD, which are operated by
modulating the tripartite relationship among the host, microbiota, and
metabolites.

Copyright Â© 2020 Lin, Chen, Li and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01454 
PMCID: PMC7360855
PMID: 32733406 

