
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Sep 22. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02203-z. [Epub ahead of
print]

Viability of Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG in Simulated Gastrointestinal Conditions 
and After Baking White Pan Bread at Different Temperature and Time Regimes.

Ezekiel OO(1), Okehie ID(1), Adedeji OE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Technology, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(2)Department of Food Science and Technology, Federal University Wukari, Wukari, 
Nigeria. adedeji@fuwukari.edu.ng.

This study investigated the viability of encapsulated and un-encapsulated (free
cell) Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG) in bread baked at different baking
conditions (180 °C for 30 min, 220 °C for 20 min, and 250 °C for 15 min) and in
simulated gastrointestinal conditions. The cell was encapsulated either with
sodium alginate, singly or in combination with chitosan, cassava starch, and
hi-maize resistant starch. There was complete loss of viability of
un-encapsulated LGG after baking. Significantly (P < 0.05) higher viability was
recorded for LGG encapsulated with sodium alginate + cassava starch + chitosan
beads (SCCB) and sodium alginate + hi-maize resistant starch + chitosan beads
(SHCB) compared to sodium alginate beads (SAB) and sodium alginate + cassava
starch beads (SSB). Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG encapsulated with SHCB gave the
highest viability (P < 0.05) after subjection to simulated gastric and intestinal
juices. The incorporation of LGG did not have significant (P < 0.05) influence on
volume, specific volume, moisture, ash, fat, and fiber contents of bread. The
lowest moisture content was obtained at baking condition of 180 °C for 30 min,
while the highest value was at 250 °C for 15 min. Baking condition did not cause 
significant (P > 0.05) change in fat, ash, and carbohydrate content of bread.
The encapsulation of LGG with multiple layers of encapsulating materials
significantly preserved its viability during baking and in
simulated gastrointestinal conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02203-z 
PMID: 32960301 

