
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Sep 4. pii: S0022-0302(20)30671-8. doi: 10.3168/jds.2020-18769.
[Epub ahead of print]

Evaluation of the efficacy of commercial protective cultures against mold and
yeast in queso fresco.

Makki GM(1), Kozak SM(1), Jencarelli KG(1), Alcaine SD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853.
(2)Department of Food Science, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853. Electronic
address: alcaine@cornell.edu.

In this study, we evaluated the efficacy of 3 commercial protective cultures
designated PC1 (Lactobacillus spp.), PC2 (Lactobacillus rhamnosus), and PC3
(Lactobacillus rhamnosus) as biopreservatives in queso fresco (QF) against 9
yeast strains (Candida zeylanoides, Clavispora lusitaniae, Debaryomyces hansenii,
Debaryomyces prosopidis, Kluyveromyces marxianus, Meyerozyma guilliermondii,
Pichia fermentans, Rhodotorula mucilaginosa, and Torulaspora delbrueckii) and 11 
mold strains (Aspergillus cibarius, Aureobasidium pullulans, Penicillium
chrysogenum, Penicillium citrinum, Penicillium commune, Penicillium
decumbens, Penicillium roqueforti, Mucor genevensis, Mucor racemosus, Phoma
dimorpha, and Trichoderma amazonicum). All fungal spoilage strains were
previously isolated from dairy processing environments. A positive control (C)
with no protective culture was included. Fungal spoilage organisms were
inoculated on cheese surfaces at an inoculum level of 20 cfu/g, and cheeses were 
stored at 6 ± 2°C throughout the study. For yeast enumeration, cheeses were
sampled on d 0, 7, 14, and 21 postinoculation. Significant inhibition was
detected for each yeast strain by comparing yeast counts for each cheese treated 
with protective culture against the control cheese using one-way ANOVA with
Bonferroni correction performed individually at d 7, 14, and 21 postinoculation. 
Mold growth was visually observed and imaged weekly through 70 d postinoculation.
Whereas PC3 inhibited Cl. lusitaniae, Mey. guilliermondii, and Ph. dimorpha, PC2 
inhibited the outgrowth of Cl. lusitaniae, D. hansenii, and Ph. dimorpha.
Protective culture 1 had the broadest spectrum of efficacy across yeast and
molds, delaying spoilage caused by 4 distinct yeast strains (Cl. lusitaniae, D.
hansenii, D. prosopidis, and Mey. guilliermondii), and inhibiting visible growth 
of 2 mold strains (P. chrysogenum and Ph. dimorpha). Results demonstrated that
commercial protective cultures vary in performance, as indicated by the breadth
of mold and yeast inhibition at both the genus and species level. This study
suggests that manufacturers looking into using protective cultures should
investigate their efficacy against specific fungal strains of concern.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-18769 
PMID: 32896415 

