
1. Foods. 2020 Jun 2;9(6). pii: E720. doi: 10.3390/foods9060720.

Metabolism of Lactobacillus sakei Chr82 in the Presence of Different Amounts of
Fermentable Sugars.

Barbieri F(1), Laghi L(1)(2), Gardini F(1)(2), Montanari C(2), Tabanelli G(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural and Food Sciences, University of Bologna, 47521
Cesena, Italy.
(2)Interdepartmental Center for Industrial Agri-Food Research, University of
Bologna, 47521 Cesena, Italy.
(3)Department of Agricultural and Food Sciences, University of Bologna, 40127
Bologna, Italy.

Lactobacillus sakei is widely used as a starter culture in fermented sausages
since it is well adapted to meat environments and able to maintain high viability
thanks to secondary pathways activated when hexoses are depleted (i.e.,
metabolism of pentoses and amino acids). In this study, a commercial strain of L.
sakei was inoculated in a defined medium with ribose or glucose as the carbon
source, at optimal or reduced concentrations, to evaluate its different
physiological and metabolic responses in relation to different growth conditions.
The results obtained with different approaches (HPLC, 1H-NMR, flow cytometry)
evidenced different growth performances, amino acid consumptions and
physiological states of cells in relation to the carbon source as an active
response to harsh conditions. As expected, higher concentrations of sugars
induced higher growth performances and the accumulation of organic acids. The low
sugars amount induced the presence of dead cells, while injured cells increased
with ribose. Arginine was the main amino acid depleted, especially in the
presence of higher ribose, and resulted in the production of ornithine. Moreover,
the 1H-NMR analysis evidenced a higher consumption of serine at the optimal
sugars concentration (pyruvate production). This information can be helpful to
optimize the use of these species in the industrial production of fermented
sausages.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9060720 
PMCID: PMC7353496
PMID: 32498333 

