
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Aug 13;11:1941. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01941. eCollection 
2020.

Lactobacillus johnsonii BS15 Prevents Psychological Stress-Induced Memory
Dysfunction in Mice by Modulating the Gut-Brain Axis.

Wang H(1), Sun Y(1)(2), Xin J(3), Zhang T(4), Sun N(3), Ni X(3), Zeng D(3), Bai
Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Gastroenterology, Department of
Gastroenterology, Institute of Gastroenterology of Guangdong Province, Nanfang
Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Department of General Medicine, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Hainan
Medical University, Haikou, China.
(3)College of Veterinary Medicine, Animal Microecology Institute, Sichuan
Agricultural University, Chengdu, China.
(4)School of Science, Xihua University, Chengdu, China.

Researchers are attempting to harness the advantages of the gut-brain axis to
prevent neurocognitive disorders by enhancing intestinal health. In this study,
four groups of ICR mice were orally gavaged with either phosphate-buffered saline
(control and CW groups) or the probiotic strain Lactobacillus johnsonii BS15 (P
and PW group; daily amounts of 2 × 108 colony-forming units) for 28 days. From
days 22 to 28, the mice in the CW and PW groups were subjected to water-avoidance
stress (WAS). The issue of whether psychological stress-induced memory
dysfunction can be prevented via L. johnsonii BS15 pretreatment to modulate the
gut-brain axis was investigated. Results show that L. johnsonii BS15 enhanced gut
development by increasing villus height in the jejunum and ileum as well as
villus height:crypt depth ratio in the ileum. L. johnsonii BS15 increased the
activities of digestive enzymes, including trypsin and lipase in the jejunum and 
ileum. The intestinal goblet cell number was also increased by L. johnsonii BS15 
pretreatment. Moreover, L. johnsonii BS15 balanced the gut microbiota by
increasing the log10 DNA gene copies of Lactobacillus spp. and L. johnsonii and
decreasing that of Enterobacteriaceae in the cecum. L. johnsonii BS15 also
exerted preventive effects on intestinal permeability WAS by modulating diamine
oxidase and D-lactate levels in the serum and mRNA expression levels of the tight
junction proteins claudin-1, occludin, and ZO-1 in the jejunum and ileum. L.
johnsonii BS15 pretreatment modulated inflammatory factors, specifically tumor
necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-gamma, and interleukin-10. L. johnsonii BS15
pretreatment improved their performance in two behavioral tests, namely the novel
object and T-maze tests. This result indicates that psychological stress-induced 
memory dysfunction possibly could be prevented through the gut-brain axis. In
addition, L. johnsonii BS15 exerted beneficial effects on the hippocampus by
modulating memory-related functional proteins, especially those related to
synaptic plasticity, such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor and stem cell
factor. Moreover, L. johnsonii BS15 recovered antioxidant capacity and exerted
protective effects on mitochondrion-mediated apoptosis in the hippocampus.
Collectively, the modulation of the gut-brain axis by L. johnsonii BS15 could be 
considered a promising non-invasive treatment modality for psychological
stress-induced memory dysfunction.

Copyright © 2020 Wang, Sun, Xin, Zhang, Sun, Ni, Zeng and Bai.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01941 
PMCID: PMC7438410
PMID: 32903531 

