
1. Eng Life Sci. 2020 Feb 20;20(5-6):168-180. doi: 10.1002/elsc.201900143.
eCollection 2020 Apr.

Brewers' spent grain liquor as a feedstock for lactate production with
Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. lactis.

Akermann A(1), Weiermüller J(1), Christmann J(1), Guirande L(1), Glaser G(1),
Knaus A(2), Ulber R(1).

Author information: 
(1)TU Kaiserslautern, Department of Mechanical and Process Engineering Chair of
Bioprocess Engineering Kaiserslautern Germany.
(2)TU Kaiserslautern, Department of Civil Engineering Resource Efficient
Wastewater Technology Kaiserslautern Germany.

Brewers' spent grain (BSG) is a low-cost by-product of the brewing process. BSG
liquor names the liquid components of BSG, mainly glucose, maltose, and
long-chain α-1,4-glycosidic bond glucose oligomers. These substances should be
separated in existing BSG biorefineries, as they might lead to an increased
formation of microbe-inhibiting compounds in well-established
hydrothermal/enzymatic saccharification processes. In most cases, this liquid
fraction is discarded. The present study presents for the first time an optimized
process with BSG liquor for the purpose of producing bulk chemicals (e.g.,
lactate) in relevant concentrations. The process comprises the application of
yeast extract, produced from own brewing processes, as the sole supplemented
complex constituent in a simultaneous fermentation and saccharification process. 
Kinetic parameters for the final optimized process conditions with the organism
Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. lactis were: maximum specific growth rate
µmax  =  0.47 h-1, maximum lactate concentration cLac, max  =  79.06 g L-1,
process yield YPS  =  0.89 gLac gSugar -1, lactate production rate
qP  =  4.18 gLac gCDW -1 h-1, and productivity P 15 h  =  4.93 gLac L-1 h-1. BSG 
liquor, linked with yeast extract from Brewers' yeast, can be a promising
substrate for further bioprocess engineering tasks and contribute to a holistic
and sustainable usage of Brewers' spent grain.

© 2020 The Authors. Engineering in Life Sciences published by WILEY‐VCH Verlag
GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/elsc.201900143 
PMCID: PMC7447884
PMID: 32874180 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared no conflict of
interest.

