
1. Nucleosides Nucleotides Nucleic Acids. 2020 Sep 20:1-10. doi:
10.1080/15257770.2020.1815768. [Epub ahead of print]

Lactobacillus gasseri PA-3 directly incorporates purine mononucleotides and
utilizes them for growth.

Yamada N(1)(2), Saito C(1)(2), Kano H(1)(2), Fukuuchi T(2), Yamaoka N(2), Kaneko 
K(2), Asami Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Food Microbiology Research Laboratories, R&D Division, Meiji Co., Ltd, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Biomedical and Analytical Sciences, Faculty of Pharma Sciences, 
Teikyo University, Tokyo, Japan.

Lactococcus lactis has been reported unable to directly incorporate
mononucleotides but instead requires their external dephosphorylation by
nucleotidases to the corresponding nucleosides prior to their incorporation.
Although Lactobacillus gasseri PA-3 (PA-3), a strain of lactic acid bacteria, has
been found to incorporate purine mononucleotides such as adenosine
5'-monophosphate (AMP), it remains unclear whether these bacteria directly
incorporate these mononucleotides or incorporate them after dephosphorylation to 
the corresponding nucleosides. This study evaluated whether PA-3 incorporated
radioactively-labeled mononucleotides in the presence or absence of the
5'-nucleotidase inhibitor α,β-methylene ADP (APCP). PA-3 took up 14C-AMP in the
presence of APCP, as well as incorporating 32P-AMP. Furthermore, radioactivity
was detected in the RNA/DNA of bacterial cells cultured in the presence of
32P-AMP. Taken together, these findings indicated that PA-3 incorporated purine
mononucleotides directly rather than after their dephosphorylation to purine
nucleosides and that PA-3 utilizes these purine mononucleotides in the synthesis 
of RNA and DNA. Although additional studies are required to identify purine
mononucleotide transporters in PA-3, this study is the first to show that some
lactic acid bacteria directly incorporate purine mononucleotides and use them for
growth.

DOI: 10.1080/15257770.2020.1815768 
PMID: 32954967 

