
1. Surg Infect (Larchmt). 2020 Sep 30. doi: 10.1089/sur.2020.233. [Epub ahead of
print]

Unmasking Unique Immune Altering Aspects of the Microbiome as a Tool to Correct
Sepsis-Induced Immune Dysfunction.

Heffernan IM(1), McGeary JE(2)(3), Chung CS(1), Ayala A(1), Heffernan DS(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Surgical Research, Brown University/Rhode Island Hospital,
Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(2)Providence Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Alpert Medical School, Brown
University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.

Background: Sepsis-related mortality is driven by immune dysfunction. A
bidirectional micro-organism-immune cell cross talks exists. Gut Bacteroides
fragilis-T-cell crosstalk maintains innate immune cell/pathogen homeostasis.
Commensal gut Clostridia spp. suppress inflammation and induce gut tolerance.
Probiotics are administered to restore immune microbiome homeostasis. Individual 
microbial components have an immunomodulatory effect. However, probiotic
therapies for sepsis-induced immune disruptions are rarely tailored to specific
immune responses. Thus, we ask the question as to how components of the
intestinal microbiome, often found in probiotic therapies, affect lymphocyte
phenotypic profile? Methods: T-lymphocytes were cultured with either
monomicrobial or polymicrobial combinations. Microbes used were Bacteroides
fragilis, Clostridium perfringens, or Lactobacillus acidophilus. Cytokines,
measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)-included interleukin
(IL)-6, IL-10, IL-22, and IL-33. Flow cytometry was used for T-cell phenotyping
for program-death receptor-1 (PD-1) and B- and T-lymphocyte attenuator (BTLA).
T-cell DNA was extracted to assess global epigenetic changes. For translation,
IL-33 was measured from surgical intensive care unit (ICU) patients with sepsis
with either monomicrobial or polymicrobial infection. Results: Lactobacillus
consistently induced IL-22 and IL-33. Bacteroides fragilis induced IL-33 only
under polymicrobial (pB) conditions. Within surgical ICU patients, IL-33 levels
were higher in polymicrobial versus monomicrobial patients. PD-1+ expression was 
lowest with either monomicrobial Bacteroides fragilis or Bacteroides fragilis
predominant polymicrobial context. Conversely Bacteroides fragilis exposure
induced a distinct PD-1-high subpopulation. B- and T-lymphocyte
attenuator-positive expression did not differ after individual microbes. Among
polymicrobial conditions, Bacteroides fragilis predominant (pB) and Lactobacillus
acidophilus predominant (pL) increased BTLA+ expression. DNA methylation was most
increased in response to Clostridium perfringens in monomicrobial and in response
to Bacteroides fragilis in polymicrobial conditions. Conclusion: Unique
microbe/lymphocyte interactions occur. Bacteroides fragilis induced a T-cell
phenotype consistent with potential long-term immune recovery. This work begins
to discover how varying microbes may induce unique functional and phenotypic
T-lymphocyte responses.

DOI: 10.1089/sur.2020.233 
PMID: 32996833 

