
1. Benef Microbes. 2019 Dec 9;10(8):893-900. doi: 10.3920/BM2019.0069. Epub 2019 Oct
10.

Lactobacilli intra-tracheal administration protects from Pseudomonas aeruginosa
pulmonary infection in mice - a proof of concept.

Fangous MS(1)(2), Alexandre Y(3), Hymery N(3), Gouriou S(2), Arzur D(2)(3), Blay 
GL(3)(4), Berre RL(2)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Microbiologie, CH Cornouaille, Rue Yves Thepot, 29000 Quimper, 
France.
(2)Univ Brest, Inserm, EFS, UMR 1078, GGB, 22 avenue Camille Desmoulins, 29200
Brest, France.
(3)Université de Brest, EA 3882-Laboratoire Universitaire de Biodiversité et
d'Écologie Microbienne (LUBEM), Parvis Blaise Pascal, Technopôle Brest-Iroise,
29280 Plouzané, France.
(4)Univ Brest, CNRS, IRD, Ifremer, LEMAR, 29280 Plouzane, France.
(5)Département de Médecine Interne et Pneumologie, CHRU La Cavale-Blanche, Bd
Tanguy Prigent, 29200 Brest, France.

The spreading of antibiotic resistance is a major public health issue, which
requires alternative treatments to antibiotics. Lactobacilli have shown abilities
to prevent pneumonia in clinical studies when given by oral route, certainly
through the gut-lung axis involvement. Rationally, respiratory administration of 
lactobacilli has been developed and studied in murine model, to prevent from
respiratory pathogens. It allows a direct effect of probiotics into the
respiratory system. To our knowledge, no study has ever focused on the effect of 
probiotic intra-respiratory administration to prevent from Pseudomonas aeruginosa
(PA) pneumonia, a major respiratory pathogen associated with high morbidity
rates. In this study, we evaluated the beneficial activity of three Lactobacillus
strains (Lactobacillus fermentum K.C6.3.1E, Lactobacillus zeae Od.76,
Lactobacillus paracasei ES.D.88) previously screened by ourselves and known to be
particularly efficient in vitro in inhibiting PAO1 virulence factors. Cytotoxic
assays in alveolar epithelial cell line A549 were performed, followed by the
comparison of two lactobacilli prophylactic protocols (one or two
administrations) by intra-tracheal administration in a C57BL/6 murine model of PA
pneumonia. A549 cells viability was improved from 23 to 75% when lactobacilli
were administered before PAO1 incubation, demonstrating a protective effect
(P<0.001). A significant decrease of 2 log of PAO1 was observed 4 h after PAO1
instillation (3×106 cfu/mouse) in both groups receiving lactobacilli (9×106
cfu/mouse) compared to PAO1 group (P<0.05). One single prophylactic
administration of lactobacilli significantly decreased the secretion by 50% in
bronchoalveolar lavages of interleukin (IL)-6 and tumour necrosis factor-α
compared to PAO1. No difference of secretion was observed for the IL-10
secretion, whatever the prophylactic study design. This is the first study
highlighting that direct lung administration of Lactobacillus strains protect
against PA pneumonia. Next step will be to decipher the mechanisms involved
before developing this novel approach for human applications.

DOI: 10.3920/BM2019.0069 
PMID: 31965833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

