
1. Eur J Pediatr. 2020 Sep 17. doi: 10.1007/s00431-020-03809-y. [Epub ahead of
print]

Use of probiotics in the treatment of functional abdominal pain in
children-systematic review and meta-analysis.

Trivić I(1), Niseteo T(1), Jadrešin O(1), Hojsak I(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Referral Center for Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Children's
Hospital Zagreb, Klaićeva 16, 10000, Zagreb, Croatia.
(2)Referral Center for Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Children's
Hospital Zagreb, Klaićeva 16, 10000, Zagreb, Croatia. ivahojsak@gmail.com.
(3)School of Medicine, University of Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia.
ivahojsak@gmail.com.
(4)School of Medicine, J.J. Strossmayer University of Osijek, Osijek, Croatia.
ivahojsak@gmail.com.

Functional abdominal pain is a very frequent functional gastrointestinal disorder
but still without adequate treatment options. Therefore, the main aim of this
systematic review and meta-analysis was to evaluate strain-specific probiotic
effects on functional abdominal pain in children. This was a systematic review
and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials published in a period up to 1st
of April 2020 that analyzed probiotic interventions for pediatric functional
abdominal pain. We included 9 randomized controlled trials (a total of 702
children, 506 with functional abdominal pain; 4 to 18 years); 8 studies were
available for meta-analysis (a total of 641 children). Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG
and Lactobacillus reuteri DSM 17938 were the only two probiotic strains
investigated. Significant reduction in pain intensity (6 trials, n = 380, mean
difference - 1.24, 95% CI - 2.35 to - 0.13) and increase in number of days
without pain (2 trials, n = 101, mean difference 26.42, 95% CI 22.67 to 30.17)
were found in children taking L. reuteri DSM 17938. For all other outcomes, there
were no significant differences between probiotic and placebo.Conclusion: Based
on the available evidence, no firm conclusions can be given; however, L. reuteri 
was proven to decrease the pain intensity in children with functional abdominal
pain. Further trials regarding long-term outcomes, possibly involving longer
interventions, are needed. What is Known: • Previously published systematic
reviews have suggested that probiotics may have an effect on the pain in children
with functional gastrointestinal disorders, but limited data exist on
strain-specific effects. What is New: • This systematic review provides evidence 
on the probiotic use on the strain-specific level. • This systematic review
showed that the use of Lactobacillus reuteri DSM 17938 modestly reduces the pain 
intensity in children with functional abdominal pain.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-020-03809-y 
PMID: 32940743 

