
1. Helminthologia. 2020 Aug 5;57(3):226-234. doi: 10.2478/helm-2020-0024.
eCollection 2020 Sep.

Probiotic Bacteria can Modulate Murine Macrophage's Superoxide Production in
Trichinella Spiralis Infection.

Vargová M(1)(2), Hurníková Z(1), Revajová V(2), Lauková A(3), Dvorožňáková E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Parasitology, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Hlinkova 3, 040 01
Košice, Slovakia.
(2)University of Veterinary Medicine and Pharmacy in Košice, Komenského 73, 041
81 Košice, Slovakia.
(3)Institute of Animal Physiology, Centre of Biosciences of the Slovak Academy of
Sciences, Šoltésovej 4-6, 040 01 Košice, Slovakia.

The effect of probiotic strains (Enterococcus faecium EF55, E. faecium CCM7420,
E. faecium CCM8558, E. durans ED26E/7, Lactobacillus fermentum CCM7421, L.
plantarum 17L/1) on the production of superoxide anion (O2 -) in peritoneal
macrophages of Trichinella spiralis infected mice was examined. E. faecium EF55
and E. faecium CCM8558 strains increased the O2 -production prior to parasitic
infection,at the day7of application.A significant inhibition of the O2 -
production caused by T. spiralis infection on day 5 post infection (p.i.) was
prevented by all examined strains. Lactobacilli stimulated metabolic activity of 
macrophages during intestinal and early muscular phase (from day 5 to 25 p.i.) of
trichinellosis. Enterococci increased the O2 - production in early intestinal
phase (day 5 p.i.) and during the muscular phase of trichinellosis (days 25 and
32 p.i.). Respected increase in macrophage's metabolic activity induced by
probiotic treatment in the intestinal phase of trichinellosis augmented the host 
antiparasite defence (damage and killing of newborn larvae with reactive oxygen
species from macrophages).

© 2020 M. Vargová, Z. Hurníková, V. Revajová, A. Lauková, E. Dvorožňáková,
published by Sciendo.

DOI: 10.2478/helm-2020-0024 
PMCID: PMC7425235
PMID: 32855610 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare there is
no conflict of interest relating to the information presented in this manuscript.

