
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Aug 25;11:1963. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01963. eCollection 
2020.

Characterization and in vitro Analysis of Probiotic-Derived Peptides Against
Multi Drug Resistance Bacterial Infections.

Mazumdar A(1)(2), Haddad Y(1)(2), Sur VP(1)(2), Milosavljevic V(1)(2), Bhowmick
S(1)(2), Michalkova H(1), Guran R(1)(2), Vesely R(3), Moulick A(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Faculty of AgriSciences, Mendel
University in Brno, Brno, Czechia.
(2)Central European Institute of Technology, Brno University of Technology, Brno,
Czechia.
(3)Department of Traumatology at the Medical Faculty, Masaryk University and
Trauma Hospital of Brno, Brno, Czechia.

An inexorable switch from antibiotics has become a major desideratum to overcome 
antibiotic resistance. Bacteriocin from Lactobacillus casei, a cardinal probiotic
was used to design novel antibacterial peptides named as Probiotic Bacteriocin
Derived and Modified (PBDM) peptides (PBDM1: YKWFAHLIKGLC and PBDM2:
YKWFRHLIKKLC). The loop-shaped 3D structure of peptides was characterized in
silico via molecular dynamics simulation as well as biophysically via
spectroscopic methods. Thereafter, in vitro results against multidrug resistant
bacterial strains and hospital samples demonstrated the strong antimicrobial
activity of PBDM peptides. Further, in vivo studies with PBDM peptides showed
downright recovery of balb/c mice from Vancomycin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus
(VRSA) infection to its healthy condition. Thereafter, in vitro study with human 
epithelial cells showed no significant cytotoxic effects with high
biocompatibility and good hemocompatibility. In conclusion, PBDM peptides
displayed significant antibacterial activity against certain drug resistant
bacteria which cause infections in human beings. Future analysis are required to 
unveil its mechanism of action in order to execute it as an alternative to
antibiotics.

Copyright Â© 2020 Mazumdar, Haddad, Sur, Milosavljevic, Bhowmick, Michalkova,
Guran, Vesely and Moulick.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01963 
PMCID: PMC7477325
PMID: 32983007 

