
1. Food Funct. 2020 Apr 30;11(4):3180-3190. doi: 10.1039/d0fo00255k.

Bilberry anthocyanin extracts enhance anti-PD-L1 efficiency by modulating gut
microbiota.

Wang L(1), Jiang G(1), Jing N(1), Liu X(1), Li Q(2), Liang W(3), Liu Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084,
China. jianggq@tsinghua.edu.cn liuzheng@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn and Key Lab of
Industrial Biocatalysis, Ministry of Education, Beijing 100084, China.
(2)Protein and Peptide Pharmaceutical Laboratory, Institute of Biophysics,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.
(3)Protein and Peptide Pharmaceutical Laboratory, Institute of Biophysics,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China and University of Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.

The undesirable low response rate is a major hurdle to garnering the maximum
potential of immune checkpoint inhibitors in cancer treatments. Recent advances
in exploring the effects of intestinal flora on the medical efficacy of immune
checkpoint blockade have shed new light on the application of immune checkpoint
inhibitors. Inspired by the prebiotic role of anthocyanin-rich extracts, we
propose using bilberry anthocyanin extracts to modulate the composition of gut
microbiota and eventually, promote the efficiency of immune checkpoint
inhibitors. This study demonstrates the effectiveness of orally administered
bilberry anthocyanin extracts in enhancing the anti-tumor efficiency of the PD-L1
antibody in the experimental mouse MC38 tumor model. We observed an increase in
the fecal abundance of Clostridia and Lactobacillus johnsonii and improved
effective community diversity. These findings reinforce the importance of
intestinal flora composition and open up unprecedented opportunities in using
natural compounds to enhance the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1039/d0fo00255k 
PMID: 32211663 

