
1. J Sci Food Agric. 2020 Apr;100(6):2722-2731. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.10304. Epub 2020
Feb 17.

Application of condensed molasses fermentation solubles and lactic acid bacteria 
in corn silage production.

Chen SW(1), Chang YY(2), Huang HY(3), Kuo SM(3), Wang HT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Science and Technology, National Taiwan University,
Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Graduate Institute of Biotechnology, Chinese Culture University, Taipei,
Taiwan.
(3)CMS Business Division, Vedan Enterprise Corp, Taichung, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to investigate the application of two lactic
acid bacteria and dry condensed molasses fermentation solubles (CMS) in the
making and preservation of corn silage. Forage corn materials are divided into
eight treatment groups as follows: (i) control, (ii) B2 (Lactobacillus plantarum 
B2, 1 × 109 cfu kg-1 ), (iii) LAS (Lactobacillus buchneri 40788, 3 × 108 cfu kg-1
), (iv) B2 + LAS, (v) CMS (35 g kg-1 , fresh weight), (vi) B2 + CMS, (vii)
LAS + CMS and (viii) B2 + LAS + CMS. The silage composition and aerobic stability
are determined after ensiling for 90 days. Furthermore, the digestibility of the 
silage product and gas production are evaluated using a trotro digestion
procedure.
RESULTS: The assay results indicate that the CMS supplementation and B2
inoculation significantly increased lactic acid concentration (P < 0.01).
However, they also reduced the content of acetic acid and silage pH at the
initial fermentation stage. The CMS supplemented with B2 (B2 + CMS) showed an
improvement in the quality of silage, but a significant decrease in aerobic
stability (P < 0.01). The B2 + LAS + CMS treatment yielded an increase in acetic 
acid production during the late fermentation period and is able to extend the
aerobic stability of corn silage. Furthermore, this study shows that CMS
supplementation alone can significantly improve the digestibility of the in vitro
dry matter (P < 0.01) and the microbial protein synthesis efficiency (P = 0.01). 
In addition, the CMS supplementation is beneficial for enhancing the aerobic
stability of corn silage.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the combination of CMS supplementation
and a suitable inoculation lactic acid bacterial strain can be highly promising
for enhancing the higher quality and stability of corn silage. © 2020 Society of 
Chemical Industry.

© 2020 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.10304 
PMID: 32003003 

