
1. Foodborne Pathog Dis. 2020 Sep 7. doi: 10.1089/fpd.2020.2828. [Epub ahead of
print]

Effectiveness of a Direct-Fed Microbial Product Containing Lactobacillus
acidophilus and Lactobacillus casei in Reducing Fecal Shedding of Escherichia
coli O157:H7 in Commercial Feedlot Cattle.

Dewsbury DMA(1)(2), Cernicchiaro N(1)(2), Depenbusch B(3), Nagaraja TG(2), Renter
DG(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Outcomes Research and Epidemiology, Kansas State University,
Manhattan, Kansas, USA.
(2)Department of Diagnostic Medicine/Pathobiology, College of Veterinary
Medicine, Kansas State University, Manhattan, Kansas, USA.
(3)Innovative Livestock Services, Inc., Great Bend, Kansas, USA.

The objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a direct-fed
microbial (DFM) product in reducing fecal shedding of Escherichia coli O157:H7 in
finishing commercial feedlot cattle in Kansas (KS) and Nebraska (NE). Utilizing a
randomized complete block design within the feedlot (KS, n = 1; NE, n = 1),
cattle were randomly allocated to 20 pens, grouped in blocks of two based on
allocation date, and then, within the block, randomly assigned to a treatment
group (DFM or negative control). The DFM product was included in the diet at a
targeted daily dose of 1 × 109 colony-forming units (CFU) of the Lactobacillus
acidophilus and Lactobacillus casei combination per animal for at least 60 d
before sampling. Feedlots were sampled for four consecutive weeks; weekly
sampling consisted of collecting 20 pen floor fecal samples per pen. Fecal
samples were subjected to culture-based methods for detection and isolation of E.
coli O157, and positive samples were quantified using real-time polymerase chain 
reaction. Primary outcomes of interest were fecal prevalence of E. coli O157:H7
and E. coli O157 supershedding (≥104 CFU/g of feces) prevalence. Data for each
feedlot were analyzed at the pen level using mixed models accounting for the
study design features. Model-adjusted mean E. coli O157:H7 fecal prevalence
estimates (standard error of the mean [SEM]) for DFM and control groups were 8.2%
(SEM = 2.2%) and 9.9% (SEM = 2.5%) in KS and 14.6% (SEM = 2.8%) versus 14.3%
(SEM = 2.6%) in NE; prevalence did not differ significantly between treatment
groups at either site (KS, p = 0.51; NE, p = 0.92). Mean E. coli O157
supershedding prevalence estimates for DFM and control groups were 2.2%
(SEM = 0.7%) versus 1.8% (SEM = 0.7%) in KS (p = 0.66) and 6.7% (SEM = 1.5%)
versus 3.2% (SEM = 1.0%) in NE (p = 0.04). In conclusion, administering the DFM
product in the finishing diet of feedlot cattle did not significantly reduce E.
coli O157:H7 fecal prevalence or supershedding prevalence in study pens at either
commercial feedlot.

DOI: 10.1089/fpd.2020.2828 
PMID: 32898446 

