
1. J Agric Food Chem. 2020 Jul 22;68(29):7660-7669. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.0c00259.
Epub 2020 Jul 13.

Improvement and Metabolomics-Based Analysis of d-Lactic Acid Production from
Agro-Industrial Wastes by Lactobacillus delbrueckii Submitted to Adaptive
Laboratory Evolution.

Liang S(1), Jiang W(1), Song Y(1), Zhou SF(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Chemical Engineering, Huaqiao University, 668 Jimei Boulevard,
Xiamen, Fujian 361021, P. R. China.

To decrease d-lactic acid production cost, sugarcane molasses and soybean meal,
low-cost agro-industrial wastes, were selected as feedstock. First, sugarcane
molasses was used directly by Lactobacillus delbrueckii S-NL31, and the nutrients
were released from soybean meal by protease hydrolysis. Subsequently, to ensure
intensive substrate utilization and enhanced d-lactic acid production from
sugarcane molasses and soybean meal, adaptation of L. delbrueckii S-NL31 to
substrates was performed through adaptive laboratory evolution. After two-phase
adaptive laboratory evolution, the evolved strain L. delbrueckii S-NL31-CM3-SBM
with improved cell growth and d-lactic acid production on sugarcane molasses and 
soybean meal was obtained. To decipher the potential reasons for improved
fermentation performance, a metabolomics-based approach was developed to profile 
the differences of intracellular metabolism between initial and evolved strain.
The in-depth analysis elucidated how the key factors exerted influence on
d-lactic acid biosynthesis. The results revealed that the enhancement of
glycolysis pathway and cofactor supply was directly associated with increased
lactic acid production, and the reinforcement of pentose phosphate pathway, amino
acid metabolism, and oleic acid uptake improved cell survival and growth. These
might be the main reasons for significantly improved d-lactic acid production by 
adaptive laboratory evolution. Finally, fed-batch simultaneous enzymatic
hydrolysis of soybean meal and fermentation process by evolved strain resulted in
d-lactic acid levels of 112.3 g/L, with an average production efficiency of 2.4
g/(L Ã— h), a yield of 0.98 g/g sugar, and optical purity of 99.6%. The results
show the applicability of d-lactic acid production in L. delbrueckii fed on
agro-industrial wastes through adaptive laboratory evolution.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.0c00259 
PMID: 32603099 

