
1. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2020 Jul 29. doi: 10.1111/lam.13363. [Epub ahead of print]

The determination of antimicrobial susceptibility by MIC and epidemiological
cut-off values and the detection of resistance genes in Aeromonas species
isolated from cultured fish.

Duman M(1), Saticioglu IB(2), Altun S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Aquatic Animal Diseases, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Bursa
Uludag University, Bursa, Turkey.
(2)Department of Aquatic Animal Diseases, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Erciyes
University, Kayseri, Turkey.

The present study was aimed at determining antimicrobial susceptibility by a CLSI
standard microdilution testing protocol and detecting the resistance genes of
motile Aeromonas species isolated from cultured fish. The importance of the
minimum inhibitory concentrations was assessed based on statistically determined 
epidemiological cut-off values calculated by normalized resistance analysis.
Unfortunately, CLSI epidemiological cut-off values are available only for
Aeromonas salmonicida, and there is no further detailed data on Aeromonas
isolated from aquatic animals. The antimicrobial susceptibilities of
pre-identified motile Aeromonas species to florfenicol, tetracycline and
sulfamethoxazole were determined by calculating epidemiological cut-off values
with fully automated and freely available Excel spreadsheets, applying the
normalized resistance interpretation (NRI) method. Furthermore, the presence of
the antimicrobial resistance genes floR, tetA, tetB, tetC, tetD, tetE, tetH,
sulI, sulII and sulIII was detected by PCR analysis and confirmed by sequence
analysis. The presence of up to six different genes (multiple antimicrobial
resistance) was determined in the Aeromonas isolates. SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF 
THE STUDY: Significance and Impact of the Study: In this study, we investigated
phenotypic and genotypic antimicrobial resistance characteristics by a novel
method based on epidemiological cut-off values. This is the second comprehensive 
study on the antimicrobial susceptibility characteristics of Aeromonas species
using NRI and epidemiological cut-off values. The present research is related to 
our previous researches focussed on the identification of motile Aeromonads,
their prevalence in relation to different fish lengths, seasons and regions, and 
covered the investigation of Lactococcus garvieae, Yersinia ruckeri,
Flavobacterium spp., Enterobacter spp. and Citrobacter spp.

Â© 2020 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.13363 
PMID: 32726860 

