
1. mSphere. 2020 Aug 12;5(4). pii: e00560-20. doi: 10.1128/mSphere.00560-20.

Comparative Genomic Study of Lactobacillus jensenii and the Newly Defined
Lactobacillus mulieris Species Identifies Species-Specific Functionality.

Putonti C(1)(2)(3), Shapiro JW(4), Ene A(2), Tsibere O(4), Wolfe AJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Loyola University Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA
cputonti@luc.edu.
(2)Bioinformatics Program, Loyola University Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola 
University Chicago, Maywood, Illinois, USA.
(4)Department of Biology, Loyola University Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.

Lactobacilli are dominant members of the "healthy" female urogenital microbiota. 
One of these species, Lactobacillus jensenii, is routinely identified in the
urinary microbiota of women both with and without urinary tract symptoms. In
March 2020, the new bacterial species Lactobacillus mulieris was introduced, and 
phylogenetic and average nucleotide identity analysis identified eight L.
jensenii strains that should be classified as members of the L. mulieris species.
This prompted our phylogenomic study of all publicly available L. jensenii and L.
mulieris genome sequences. While there is little variation in the 16S rRNA gene
sequences, the core genome shows a clear distinction between genomes of the two
species. We find eight additional strains of the species L. mulieris among these 
genomes. Furthermore, one strain, currently classified as L. mulieris UMB7784, is
distinct from both L. jensenii and L. mulieris strains. As part of our
comparative genomic study, we also investigated the genetic content that
distinguishes these two species. Unique to the L. jensenii genomes are several
genes related to catabolism of disaccharides. In contrast, L. mulieris genomes
encode several cell surface and secreted proteins that are not found within the
L. jensenii genomes. These L. jensenii-specific and L. mulieris-specific loci
provide insight into phenotypic differences of these two species.IMPORTANCE
Lactobacillus species play a key role in the health of the urinary tract. For
instance, Lactobacillus crispatus and L. jensenii have been found to inhibit
uropathogenic Escherichia coli growth. While L. crispatus is typically found only
within the microbiota of women without lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), L.
jensenii has been found in the microbiota of women both with and without LUTS.
With the recent introduction of the new species Lactobacillus mulieris, several
strains of L. jensenii were reclassified as L. mulieris based upon gene marker
and average nucleotide identity. We took a phylogenomic and comparative genomic
approach to ascertain the genetic determinants of these two species. Looking at a
larger data set, we identified additional L. mulieris strains, including one
distinct from other members of the species-L. mulieris UMB7784. Furthermore, we
identified unique loci in each species that may have clinical implications.

Copyright Â© 2020 Putonti et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSphere.00560-20 
PMCID: PMC7426171
PMID: 32817455 

