
1. Anim Sci J. 2020 Jan-Dec;91(1):e13364. doi: 10.1111/asj.13364.

Effects of inoculants on the fermentation characteristics and in vitro
digestibility of reed canary grass (Phalaris arundinacea L.) silage on the
Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau.

Chen L(1), Li P(1), Gou W(1), You M(1), Cheng Q(1), Bai S(1), Cai Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Sichuan Academy of Grassland Sciences, Chengdu, China.
(2)Japan International Research Center for Agricultural Sciences (JIRCAS),
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.

To effectively use local available grass resources to cover the winter feed
shortage on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, direct-cut and wilted reed canary grass 
(RCG) silages were prepared by using a rolled-bale system, and their ensiling
characteristics and in vitro digestibility were studied. Silages were treated
without (control) or with inoculants including LP (Lactobacillus plantarum), LPLB
(L. plantarum, L. buchneri), and LPLBc (L. plantarum, L. buchneri, and
cellulase), and were stored at ambient temperature (5.7-14.6°C) for 90 days.
Compared with control, the inoculated silages increased (p < .05) lactic acid and
acetic acid contents, and reduced (p < .05) final pH value and ammonia-N ratio of
total N. The highest WSC content (41.2 g/kg DM) occurred for LPLB-inoculated
silage, whereas LPLBc-treated silage displayed the lowest contents of NDF
(522.9 g/kg DM) and ADF (275.5 g/kg DM). In addition, LPLBc-inoculated silage had
the highest in vitro gas production (51.0 ml/g DM), in vitro DM digestibility
(619.3 g/kg DM), and metabolic energy (9.6 kJ/kg DM). These results confirmed
that treatments with inoculants at ensiling could improve silage fermentation and
in vitro digestibility of RCG, and this could be a potential winter feed for
animals on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau.

© 2020 Japanese Society of Animal Science.

DOI: 10.1111/asj.13364 
PMID: 32219952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

