
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Aug 4;10:433. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00433.
eCollection 2020.

The Microbiome Composition of a Man's Penis Predicts Incident Bacterial Vaginosis
in His Female Sex Partner With High Accuracy.

Mehta SD(1), Zhao D(1), Green SJ(2), Agingu W(3), Otieno F(3), Bhaumik R(1),
Bhaumik D(1), Bailey RC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health,
University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States.
(2)Sequencing Core, College of Medicine, University of Illinois at Chicago,
Chicago, IL, United States.
(3)Nyanza Reproductive Health Society, Kisumu, Kenya.

Background: We determined the predictive accuracy of penile bacteria for incident
BV in female sex partners. In this prospective cohort, we enrolled Kenyan men
aged 18-35 and their female sex partners aged 16 and older. We assessed BV at
baseline, 1, 6, and 12 months. Incident BV was defined as a Nugent score of 7-10 
at a follow-up visit, following a Nugent score of 0-6 at baseline. Amplification 
of the V3-V4 region of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene was performed on meatal and
glans/coronal sulcus swab samples. Majority vote classifier combined the
decisions of three machine learning classification algorithms (Random Forest,
Support Vector Machine, K Nearest Neighbor). We report the estimate
cross-validation predictive accuracy for incident BV based on baseline penile
taxa. Results: The incidence of BV was 31% among 168 couples in which the woman
did not have BV at baseline: 37.3% if the man was uncircumcised vs. 26.3% if the 
man was circumcised. Incident BV occurred at 1 month (n = 23), 6 months (n = 20),
12 months (n = 9). The predictive capacity of meatal taxa was high: sensitivity
(80.7%), specificity (74.6%), accuracy (77.5%), area under the curve (88.8%).
Variable importance ranking identified meatal taxa that in the vagina are
associated with BV: Parvimonas, Lactobacillus iners, L. crispatus, Dialister,
Sneathia sanguinegens, and Gardnerella vaginalis were among the top 10 most
predictive taxa. The accuracy of glans/coronal sulcus taxa to predict incident BV
was comparable to meatal taxa accuracy, but with greater variability.
Conclusions: Baseline penile microbiota accurately predicted BV incidence in
women who did not have BV at baseline, with more than half of incident infections
observed at 6- to 12- months after penile microbiome assessment. These results
suggest interventions to manipulate the penile microbiome may reduce BV incidence
in sex partners, and that potential treatment (antibiotic or live biotherapeutic)
will need to be effective in reducing or altering bacteria at both the
glans/coronal sulcus and urethral sites (as represented by the meatus). The
temporal association clarifies that concordance of penile microbiome with the
vaginal microbiome of sex partners is not merely reflecting the vaginal
microbiome, but can contribute to it.

Copyright Â© 2020 Mehta, Zhao, Green, Agingu, Otieno, Bhaumik, Bhaumik and Bailey.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00433 
PMCID: PMC7438843
PMID: 32903746 

