
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Aug 4;10:397. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00397.
eCollection 2020.

The Postbiotic Activity of Lactobacillus paracasei 28.4 Against Candida auris.

Rossoni RD(1)(2), de Barros PP(1)(2), Mendonça IDC(3), Medina RP(3), Silva
DHS(3), Fuchs BB(2), Junqueira JC(1), Mylonakis E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosciences and Oral Diagnosis, Institute of Science and
Technology, São Paulo State University/UNESP, São José dos Campos, Brazil.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases, Rhode Island Hospital, Warren Alpert Medical 
School at Brown University, Providence, RI, United States.
(3)Department of Organic Chemistry, Center for Bioassays, Biosynthesis and
Ecophysiology of Natural Products, Institute of Chemistry, São Paulo State
University, UNESP, Araraquara, Brazil.

Candida auris has emerged as a medically important pathogen with considerable
resistance to antifungal agents. The ability to produce biofilms is an important 
pathogenicity feature of this species that aids escape of host immune responses
and antimicrobial agents. The objective of this study was to verify antifungal
action using in vitro and in vivo models of the Lactobacillus paracasei 28.4
probiotic cells and postbiotic activity of crude extract (LPCE) and fraction 1
(LPF1), derived from L. paracasei 28.4 supernatant. Both live cells and cells
free supernatant of L. paracasei 28.4 inhibited C. auris suggesting probiotic and
postbiotic effects. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) for LPCE was 15
mg/mL and ranges from 3.75 to 7.5 mg/mL for LPF1. Killing kinetics determined
that after 24 h treatment with LPCE or LPF1 there was a complete reduction of
viable C. auris cells compared to fluconazole, which decreased the initial
inoculum by 1-logCFU during the same time period. LPCE and LPF1 significantly
reduced the biomass (p = 0.0001) and the metabolic activity (p = 0.0001) of C.
auris biofilm. There was also a total reduction (~108 CFU/mL) in viability of
persister C. auris cells after treatment with postbiotic elements (p < 0.0001).
In an in vivo study, injection of LPCE and LPF1 into G. mellonella larvae
infected with C. auris prolonged survival of these insects compared to a control 
group (p < 0.05) and elicited immune responses by increasing the number of
circulating hemocytes and gene expression of antimicrobial peptide galiomicin. We
concluded that the L. paracasei 28.4 cells and postbiotic elements (LPCE and
LPF1) have antifungal activity against planktonic cells, biofilms, and persister 
cells of C. auris. Postbiotic supplementation derived from L. paracasei 28.4
protected G. mellonella infected with C. auris and enhanced its immune status
indicating a dual function in modulating a host immune response.

Copyright © 2020 Rossoni, de Barros, Mendonça, Medina, Silva, Fuchs, Junqueira
and Mylonakis.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00397 
PMCID: PMC7417517
PMID: 32850495 

