
1. Microb Biotechnol. 2020 Sep 23. doi: 10.1111/1751-7915.13661. [Epub ahead of
print]

Modulation of gut mucosal microbiota as a mechanism of probiotics-based
adjunctive therapy for ulcerative colitis.

Chen P(1), Xu H(2), Tang H(2), Zhao F(2), Yang C(2), Kwok LY(2), Cong C(1), Wu
Y(1), Zhang W(2), Zhou X(3), Zhang H(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Affiliated Hospital of Inner Mongolia Medical University, Hohhot, 010050, 
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Ministry of Education
P. R. C., Key Laboratory of Dairy Products Processing, Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Affairs P. R. C., Inner Mongolia Agricultural University, Hohhot,
010018, China.
(3)China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Beijing, 100029, China.

This was a pilot study aiming to evaluate the effects of probiotics as adjunctive
treatment for ulcerative colitis (UC). Twenty-five active patients with UC were
assigned to the probiotic (n = 12) and placebo (n = 13) groups. The probiotic
group received mesalazine (60 mg kg-1  day-1 ) and oral probiotics (containing
Lactobacillus casei Zhang, Lactobacillus plantarum P-8 and Bifidobacterium
animalis subsp. lactis V9) twice daily for 12 weeks, while the placebo group
received the same amounts of mesalazine and placebo. The clinical outcomes were
assessed. The gut mucosal microbiota was profiled by PacBio single-molecule,
real-time (SMRT) sequencing of the full-length 16S rRNA of biopsy samples
obtained by colonoscopy. A significantly greater magnitude of reduction was
observed in the UC disease activity index (UCDAI) in the probiotic group compared
with the placebo group (P = 0.043), accompanying by a higher remission rate
(91.67% for probiotic-receivers versus 69.23% for placebo-receivers, P = 0.034). 
The probiotics could protect from diminishing of the microbiota diversity and
richness. Moreover, the gut mucosal microbiota of the probiotic-receivers had
significantly more beneficial bacteria like Eubacterium ramulus (P < 0.05),
Pediococcus pentosaceus (P < 0.05), Bacteroides fragilis (P = 0.02) and Weissella
cibaria (P = 0.04). Additionally, the relative abundances of the beneficial
bacteria correlated significantly but negatively with the UCDAI score, suggesting
that the probiotics might alleviate UC symptoms by modulating the gut mucosal
microbiota. Our research has provided new insights into the mechanism of symptom 
alleviation in UC by applying probiotic-based adjunctive treatment.

© 2020 The Authors. Microbial Biotechnology published by Society for Applied
Microbiology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-7915.13661 
PMID: 32969200 

