
1. Microorganisms. 2019 Dec 30;8(1). pii: E64. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8010064.

Lactic Acid Bacteria Isolation from Spontaneous Sourdough and Their
Characterization Including Antimicrobial and Antifungal Properties Evaluation.

Bartkiene E(1)(2), Lele V(1)(2), Ruzauskas M(3)(4), Domig KJ(5), Starkute
V(1)(2), Zavistanaviciute P(1)(2), Bartkevics V(6)(7), Pugajeva I(6), Klupsaite
D(2), Juodeikiene G(8), Mickiene R(1), Rocha JM(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Safety and Quality, Veterinary Academy, Lithuanian
University of Health Sciences, Mickeviciaus str. 9, LT-44307 Kaunas, Lithuania.
(2)Institute of Animal Rearing Technologies, Veterinary Academy, Lithuanian
University of Health Sciences, Mickeviciaus str. 9, LT-44307 Kaunas, Lithuania.
(3)Microbiology and Virology Institute, Veterinary Academy, Lithuanian University
of Health Sciences, Mickeviciaus str. 9, LT-44307 Kaunas, Lithuania.
(4)Department of Anatomy and Physiology, Veterinary Academy, Lithuanian
University of Health Sciences, Mickeviciaus str. 9, LT-44307 Kaunas, Lithuania.
(5)Institute of Food Science, Department of Food Science and Technology,
BOKU-University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vienna, Muthgasse 18, 1190
Wien, Austria.
(6)Department of Chemistry, University of Latvia, Jelgavas iela 1, LV-1004 Riga, 
Latvia.
(7)Institute of Food Safety, Animal Health and Environment BIOR, Lejupesiela 3,
LV-1076 Riga, Latvia.
(8)Department of Food Science and Technology, Kaunas University of Technology,
Radvilenu str. 19, LT-50254 Kaunas, Lithuania.
(9)REQUIMTE-Rede de Química e Tecnologia, Laboratório de Química Verde (LAQV),
Departamento de Química e Bioquímica, Faculdade de Ciências da Universidade do
Porto (FCUP), Rua do Campo Alegre, s/n. P-4169-007 Porto, Portugal.

This research effort aimed at isolating and phenotypically characterizing lactic 
acid bacteria (LAB) isolates from a spontaneous rye sourdough manufactured
following traditional protocols, as well as at evaluating their antimicrobial and
antifungal properties as key features for future industrial applications.
Thirteen LAB strains of potential industrial interest were isolated and
identified to species-level via PCR. Most of the sourdough isolates showed
versatile carbohydrate metabolisms. The Leuconostoc mesenteroides No. 242 and
Lactobacillus brevis No. 173 demonstrated to be gas producers; thus, revealing
their heterofermenter or facultative homofermenter features. Viable counts higher
than 7.0 log10 (CFU/mL) were observed for Lactobacillus paracasei No. 244,
Lactobacillus casei No. 210, L. brevis No. 173, Lactobacillus farraginis No. 206,
Pediococcus pentosaceus No. 183, Lactobacillus uvarum No. 245 and Lactobacillus
plantarum No. 135 strains, after exposure at pH 2.5 for 2 h. Moreover, L.
plantarum No. 122, L. casei No. 210, Lactobacillus curvatus No. 51, L. paracasei 
No. 244, and L. coryniformins No. 71 showed growth inhibition properties against 
all the tested fifteen pathogenic strains. Finally, all LAB isolates showed
antifungal activities against Aspergillus nidulans, Penicillium funiculosum, and 
Fusarium poae. These results unveiled the exceptionality of spontaneous sourdough
as a source of LAB with effective potential to be considered in the design of
novel commercial microbial single/mixed starter cultures, intended for
application in a wide range of agri-food industries, where the antimicrobial and 
antifungal properties are often sought and necessary. In addition, metabolites
therefrom may also be considered as important functional and bioactive compounds 
with high potential to be employed in food and feed, as well as cosmetic and
pharmaceutical applications.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8010064 
PMCID: PMC7023352
PMID: 31905993 

