
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 Nov 16;333:108792. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108792. Epub 2020 Jul 17.

Enhancement of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) production by Lactobacillus brevis CRL 
2013 based on carbohydrate fermentation.

Cataldo PG(1), Villegas JM(2), Savoy de Giori G(1), Saavedra L(3), Hebert EM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos (CERELA-CONICET), Batalla de Chacabuco 
145, 4000 San Miguel de Tucumán, Argentina.
(2)Instituto Superior de Investigaciones Biológicas (INSIBIO), CONICET-UNT,
Batalla de Chacabuco 461, 4000 San Miguel de Tucumán, Argentina.
(3)Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos (CERELA-CONICET), Batalla de Chacabuco 
145, 4000 San Miguel de Tucumán, Argentina. Electronic address:
lucila@cerela.org.ar.
(4)Centro de Referencia para Lactobacilos (CERELA-CONICET), Batalla de Chacabuco 
145, 4000 San Miguel de Tucumán, Argentina. Electronic address:
ehebert@cerela.org.ar.

Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) is a non-protein amino acid that is widely
distributed in nature and its physiological importance goes beyond its role as an
inhibitory neurotransmitter of the central nervous system in mammals. Since
microbial fermentation is one of the most promising methods to obtain GABA, the
production of this metabolite by several strains of lactic acid bacteria isolated
from quinoa and amaranth sourdoughs was investigated. Lactobacillus brevis CRL
2013 produced the highest GABA levels, reaching 265 mM when optimal culture
conditions were set up. The fermentative profile showed that CRL 2013 was able to
catabolize carbohydrates through the phosphoketolase pathway yielding variable
amounts of lactic acid, acetate and ethanol, which depended on the type of carbon
source available and the presence of external electron acceptors such as
fructose. Enhanced growth parameters and low GABA synthesis were associated to
pentose fermentation. This impairment on GABA production machinery was partially 
overpassed by the addition of ethanol to the culture media. These results support
the potential use of L. brevis CRL 2013 as a starter culture for the manufacture 
of GABA-enriched functional foods and provide further insights to the
understanding of the GAD system regulation in lactic acid bacteria.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108792 
PMID: 32707524 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

