
1. Heliyon. 2020 Sep 22;6(9):e04979. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e04979. eCollection
2020 Sep.

Effects of Vigiis 101-LAB on a healthy population's gut microflora, peristalsis, 
immunity, and anti-oxidative capacity: A randomized, double-blind,
placebo-controlled clinical study.

Chen CL(1), Liou JM(2), Lu TM(3), Lin YH(4), Wang CK(5), Pan TM(1)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Research and Development Division, SunWay Biotech Co., Ltd.,
Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
National Taiwan University Hospital, College of Medicine, National Taiwan
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Neurology, Chung Shan Medical University Hospital, Taichung,
Taiwan.
(4)Division of Radiotherapy, Cheng Hsin General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)School of Nutrition, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Biochemical Science and Technology, College of Life Science,
National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.

Vigiis 101-LAB capsules are produced from the fermentation of Lactobacillus
paracasei subsp. paracasei NTU 101. We tested effects of Vigiis 101-LAB capsules 
I or II (5 or 10 billion CFU/day, respectively) on gut microflora in clinical
trial I, and on peristalsis, immunity, and anti-oxidative capacity in clinical
trial II, during a 4-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
adaptive-design study. In trial I, 36 subjects were divided into capsule I and
placebo groups. After 4 weeks, Bifidobacterium spp. and Lactobacillus spp. counts
were significantly higher in the feces of treatment subjects, with increases of
4.01- and 4.25-fold, respectively. In trial II, 52 subjects were divided into
capsule II and placebo groups. After 4 weeks, the treatment group was found to
have improved motility, decreased food transit time, and significantly increased 
immunoglobulin G, immunoglobulin M, and antioxidant activity. Thus, daily
administration of Vigiis 101 capsule II can improve peristalsis, immunity, and
anti-oxidative capacity.

Â© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e04979 
PMCID: PMC7511805
PMID: 32995642 

