
1. Foods. 2020 Sep 4;9(9). pii: E1239. doi: 10.3390/foods9091239.

Bioconversion of Fish Discards through the Production of Lactic Acid Bacteria and
Metabolites: Sustainable Application of Fish Peptones in Nutritive Fermentation
Media.

Vázquez JA(1)(2), Durán AI(1)(2), Menduíña A(1)(2), Nogueira M(1)(2), Gomes
AM(3), Antunes J(3), Freitas AC(3), Dagá E(4), Dagá P(4), Valcarcel J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Grupo de Biotecnología y Bioprocesos Marinos, Instituto de Investigaciones
Marinas (IIM-CSIC), C/Eduardo Cabello, 6, CP 36208 Vigo, Galicia, Spain.
(2)Laboratorio de Reciclado y Valorización de Materiales Residuales (REVAL),
Instituto de Investigaciones Marinas (IIM-CSIC), C/Eduardo Cabello, 6, CP 36208
Vigo, Galicia, Spain.
(3)CBQF-Centro de Biotecnologia e Química Fina-Laboratório Associado, Escola
Superior de Biotecnologia, Universidade Católica Portuguesa, Rua Diogo Botelho
1327, 4169-005 Porto, Portugal.
(4)Bialactis Biotech S.L., Grupo Zendal, Lugar a Relva, S/N, CP 36410 O Porriño, 
Pontevedra, Galicia, Spain.

In the current work, we study the capacity of 30 peptones obtained by enzyme
proteolysis of ten discarded fish species (hake, megrim, red scorpionfish,
pouting, mackerel, gurnard, blue whiting, Atlantic horse mackerel, grenadier, and
boarfish) to support the growth and metabolite production of four lactic acid
bacteria (LAB) of probiotic and technological importance. Batch fermentations of 
Lactobacillus plantarum, L. brevis, L. casei, and Leuconostoc mesenteroides in
most of the media formulated with fish peptones (87% of the cases) led to similar
growths (quantified as dry-weight biomass and viable cells) and metabolites
(mainly lactic acid) than in commercial control broth (MRS). Comparisons among
cultures were performed by means of the parameters obtained from the mathematical
fittings of experimental kinetics to the logistic equation. Modelling among
experimental and predicted data from each bioproduction was generally accurate. A
simple economic assessment demonstrated the profitability achieved when MRS is
substituted by media formulated with fish discards: a 3-4-fold reduction of costs
for LAB biomass, viable cells formation, and lactic and acetic acid production.
Thus, these fish peptones are promising alternatives to the expensive commercial 
peptones as well as a possible solution to valorize discarded fish biomasses and 
by-products.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9091239 
PMID: 32899847 

