
1. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2020 Sep;12(3):1045-1056. doi:
10.1007/s12602-019-09610-0.

In Vitro Evaluation of Probiotic Potential and Safety Assessment of Lactobacillus
mucosae Strains Isolated from Donkey's Lactation.

Rastogi S(1), Mittal V(2), Singh A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Amity Institute of Biotechnology,, Amity University Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
Campus, Gomti Nagar Extension, Near Malhaur Railway Station, Lucknow, Uttar
Pradesh, 226028, India.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical
Sciences, Vibhuti Khand, Lucknow, 226010, India.
(3)Amity Institute of Biotechnology,, Amity University Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow
Campus, Gomti Nagar Extension, Near Malhaur Railway Station, Lucknow, Uttar
Pradesh, 226028, India. asingh3@lko.amity.edu.

The study, for the first time, reports the efficacy, safety and probiotic
properties of two Lactobacillus mucosae strains, Lact. mucosae SRV5 and Lact.
mucosae SRV10 isolated from donkey milk. All major in vitro screening assays were
employed to evaluate studied strains. Both strains displayed good survivability
at gastric pH 2.0, 0.3% bile and simulated oro-gastrointestinal fluid (above
88%). Also, cultures demonstrated good cell surface hydrophobicity and
auto-aggregation ability, clearly indicating their effective cell adhesion
ability. Furthermore, functional attributes for both strains demonstrated their
efficient bile salt hydrolase and cholesterol-reducing ability in spent broth. In
addition to this, both strains expressed significant DPPH-radical scavenging
ability of both culture supernatant and intact cells. Another auxiliary health
benefit exhibited by both these strains is their antimicrobial potential against 
18 enteric and 5 multidrug-resistant clinical pathogens with significant
inhibition zone size. Extracellular enzyme production such as lipase, amylase,
protease and esterase was also studied. Detailed safety evaluation study showed
the presence of innate antibiotic resistance and absence of haemolysis, DNAse and
gelatinase activity in both the strains. Also, none of the strains possessed
toxic mucinolytic activity in mucin degradation assay. To conclude, both donkey
milk isolates, Lact. mucosae SRV5[Accession number: MK990014] and Lact. mucosae
SRV10 [Accession number: MN064860], exhibited excellent probiotic ability with
tolerance to simulated oro-gastrointestinal fluids, cellular hydrophobicity,
auto-aggregation, bile salt hydrolase, cholesterol reduction, high antioxidant
activity and antimicrobial potential especially against multidrug-resistant
pathogens.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-019-09610-0 
PMID: 31713771 

