
1. J Food Biochem. 2020 Sep 28:e13495. doi: 10.1111/jfbc.13495. [Epub ahead of
print]

Regulating effect of Lactobacillus plantarum CQPC03 on lipid metabolism in
high-fat diet-induced obesity in mice.

Gan Y(1)(2)(3), Chen H(4), Zhou XR(1)(2)(3), Chu LL(1)(2)(3), Ran WT(1)(2)(3),
Tan F(5), Zhao X(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Chongqing Collaborative Innovation Center for Functional Food, Chongqing
University of Education, Chongqing, China.
(2)Chongqing Engineering Research Center of Functional Food, Chongqing University
of Education, Chongqing, China.
(3)Chongqing Engineering Laboratory for Research and Development of Functional
Food, Chongqing University of Education, Chongqing, China.
(4)Department of Clinical Nutrition, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing
Medical and Pharmaceutical College (The Six People's Hospital of Chongqing),
Chongqing, China.
(5)Department of Public Health, Our Lady of Fatima University, Valenzuela,
Philippines.

Probiotics are regard as safety approaches for preventing and treating some
chronic diseases. This study investigated the regulating effect of Lactobacillus 
plantarum CQPC03 (LP-CQPC03) on lipid metabolism in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced
obesity in mice. The results showed that administration of LP-CQPC03 at a
concentration of 1.0 × 109  CFU/kg body weight inhibits HFD-induced obesity and
improves lipid metabolism in the liver and serum. LP-CQPC03 intervention
attenuated obesity-induced hepatic tissue damage, led decreases in hepatic
triglyceride (42.02 mmol/gprot), total cholesterol (3.85 mmol/gprot), and LDL-C
(1.03 mmol/gprot), and an increase in HDL-C (1.07 mmol/gprot). The same
tendencies were observed in serum of HFD-fed mice. LP-CQPC03 intervention led a
decrease in serum levels of aspartic transaminase, alanine transaminase, and
alkaline phosphatase. LP-CQPC03 alleviated inflammation by increasing the level
of interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-10, and decreasing the levels of pro-inflammatory
factors, including IL-6, IL-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, and interferon-γ.
LP-CQPC03 also increased activities of SOD and GSH-Px in liver significantly and 
dropped the hepatic malondialdehyde (MDA) level from 3.39 nmol/gprot to
1.90 nmol/gprot. RT-qPCR results showed that the lipid metabolism-improving
effect of LP-CQPC03 was performed by upregulating the expression of carnitine
palmitoyltransferase 1, lipoprotein lipase, catalase, and superoxide dismutase 1.
This study indicates that L. plantarum CQPC03 might be a potential probiotic that
can help mitigate the adverse effects of excessive lipids on the liver, and
prevent or alleviate high-energy intake-related obesity. PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS: 
Intaking high-energy foods is a potential risk of lipid metabolic disorder.
Therefore, it is necessary to seek an effective and safe approach for preventing 
the obesity-related disease. This study found that LP-CQPC03 limited the rate of 
increase in body weight of mice fed on HFD, maintained normal hepatic tissue
morphology, and exhibited a strong regulating effect on lipid metabolism. And the
threshold concentration of LP-CQPC03 for the lipid-lowering effect was 1.0 × 109 
 CFU/kg body weight. Therefore, LP-CQPC03 is a potential probiotic for preventing
or alleviating high-energy intake-related obesity.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/jfbc.13495 
PMID: 32989790 

