
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Sep 17. pii: S0022-0302(20)30723-2. doi:
10.3168/jds.2020-18704. [Epub ahead of print]

Isolation and characterization of lactic acid bacteria from Chinese human milk.

Kang W(1), Pan L(2), Peng C(2), Dong L(2), Cao S(2), Cheng H(3), Wang Y(3), Zhang
C(4), Gu R(4), Wang J(5), Zhou H(6).

Author information: 
(1)School of Minerals Processing and Bioengineering, Central South University,
Changsha 410083, Hunan, China; Ausnutria Institute of Food and Nutrition,
Ausnutria Dairy (China) Co. Ltd., Changsha 410200, Hunan, China.
(2)Ausnutria Institute of Food and Nutrition, Ausnutria Dairy (China) Co. Ltd.,
Changsha 410200, Hunan, China.
(3)School of Minerals Processing and Bioengineering, Central South University,
Changsha 410083, Hunan, China.
(4)College of Food Science and Technology, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou 225127, 
Jiangsu, China.
(5)Ausnutria Institute of Food and Nutrition, Ausnutria Dairy (China) Co. Ltd.,
Changsha 410200, Hunan, China. Electronic address: jiaqi.wang@ausnutria.com.
(6)School of Minerals Processing and Bioengineering, Central South University,
Changsha 410083, Hunan, China. Electronic address: zhouhb@csu.edu.cn.

Human milk is the main source of nutrition for infants and the transmission of
various microorganisms. The lactic acid bacteria (LAB) in breast milk allow for
the establishment of the gut microflora of infants. In this study, we aimed to
assess the probiotic potential of LAB strains isolated from breast milk of
healthy Chinese women. Two strains, Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus (Lactobacillus
rhamnosus) LHL6 and LHL7, were selected and identified through morphology
observation, Gram staining, and 16S rDNA phylogenetic analysis. Using
Limosilactobacillus fermentum (Lactobacillus fermentum) CECT5716 as the standard 
reference strain, the screened strains were characterized for aspects of growth, 
production of lactic acid and H2O2, antibiotic susceptibility, survival under
simulated gastrointestinal conditions, and tolerance to cadmium (Cd). In de Man, 
Rogosa, and Sharpe (MRS) broth, LHL6 and LHL7 showed longer lag phases than
CECT5716 but higher specific growth rates. For the production of lactic acid and 
H2O2, LHL7 performed better than LHL6 and CECT5716, indicating better
antimicrobial ability. Strain LHL7 generated 9.99 mg/L H2O2, considerably higher 
than 1.25 mg/L for LHL6 and 2.33 mg/L for CECT5716. According to European Food
Safety Authority minimum inhibitory concentrations, all of the investigated
strains were resistant to chloramphenicol, streptomycin, and kanamycin. However, 
unlike LHL6 and CECT5716, LHL7 was susceptible to ampicillin and resistant to
tetracycline. Resistance to azithromycin, cephalexin, and penicillin G were
similar for all 3 strains, whereas CECT5716 was resistant to a higher
concentration of roxithromycin. All 3 strains were able to survive in a simulated
gastric-like solution, but a low percentage survived in the presence of 0.4% bile
salt and 7% pancreatin. Encapsulation with protectants may enhance the survival
rate. All 3 strains were tolerant to 500 mg/L Cd in MRS broth and to 1,000 mg/L
Cd on MRS agar medium. In summary, 2 novel strains of LAB were obtained that have
similar characteristics to the reference strain CECT5716. This work identified
potential probiotic candidates for application in the food and pharmaceutical
industries and facilitated identification of further probiotics.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-18704 
PMID: 32952010 

