
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Sep 30. pii: S0022-0302(20)30774-8. doi:
10.3168/jds.2020-19120. [Epub ahead of print]

Evaluation of lactic acid bacteria strains isolated from fructose-rich
environments for their mannitol-production and milk-gelation abilities.

Behare PV(1), Mazhar S(2), Pennone V(2), McAuliffe O(3).

Author information: 
(1)Dairy Microbiology Division, Indian Council of Agricultural Research
(ICAR)-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal-132001, Haryana, India.
(2)Teagasc Food Research Centre, Moorepark, Fermoy, Co. Cork, P61 C996 Ireland.
(3)Teagasc Food Research Centre, Moorepark, Fermoy, Co. Cork, P61 C996 Ireland;
VistaMilk SFI Research Centre, Moorepark, Fermoy, Co. Cork, P61 C996 Ireland.
Electronic address: olivia.mcauliffe@teagasc.ie.

Mannitol is a sugar alcohol, or polyol, widely used in the food industry because 
of its low-calorie properties. Industrial production of mannitol is difficult and
expensive. However, certain bacterial species are known to produce mannitol
naturally, including certain lactic acid bacteria and fructophilic lactic acid
bacteria (LAB). In this study, bacterial strains isolated from fructose-rich
sources, including flowers, leaves, and honey, were identified by 16S rRNA
sequence analysis as Leuconostoc, Fructobacillus, Lactococcus, and Lactobacillus 
species and 4 non-LAB species. DNA profiles generated by pulsed-field gel
electrophoresis discriminated 32 strains of Leuconostoc mesenteroides and 6
Fructobacillus strains. Out of 41 LAB strains isolated, 32 were shown to harbor
the mdh gene, which encodes the mannitol dehydrogenase enzyme, and several showed
remarkable fructose tolerance even at 50% fructose concentrations, indicating
their fructophilic nature. Several of the strains isolated, including Leuconostoc
mesenteroides strains DPC 7232 and DPC 7261, Fructobacillus fructosus DPC 7237,
and Fructobacillus fructosus DPC 7238, produced higher mannitol concentrations (P
< 0.01) than did the positive control strain Limosilactobacillus reuteri DSM
20016 during an enzymatic screening assay. Mannitol concentrations were also
examined via HPLC in 1% fructose de Man, Rogosa, and Sharpe medium (FMRS) or 1%
fructose milk (FM). Among the strains, Fructobacillus fructosus DPC 7238
displayed high fructose utilization (9.27 g/L), high mannitol yield (0.99 g of
mannitol/g of fructose), and greatest volumetric productivities (0.46 g/L per h) 
in FMRS. However, Leuconostoc mesenteroides DPC 7261 demonstrated the highest
fructose utilization (8.99 g/L), mannitol yield (0.72 g of mannitol/g of
fructose), and volumetric productivities (0.04 g/L per h) in FM. Storage modulus 
G' (>0.1 Pa) indicated a shorter gelation time for Limosilactobacillus reuteri
DSM 20016 (8.73 h), followed by F. fructosus DPC 7238 (11.57 h) and L.
mesenteroides DPC 7261 (14.52 h). Our results show that fructose-rich niches can 
be considered important sources of fructophilic LAB strains, with the potential
to be used as starter cultures or adjunct cultures for the manufacture of
mannitol-enriched fermented dairy products and beverages.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-19120 
PMID: 33010917 

