
1. Innate Immun. 2020 Sep 28:1753425920959410. doi: 10.1177/1753425920959410. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Beneficial effect of probiotics on Pseudomonas aeruginosa-infected intestinal
epithelial cells through inflammatory IL-8 and antimicrobial peptide human
beta-defensin-2 modulation.

Huang FC(1)(2), Lu YT(1), Liao YH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan.
(2)Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan.

The human pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa can rapidly induce fatal sepsis, even
in previously healthy infants or children treated with appropriate antibiotics.
To reduce antibiotic overuse, exploring novel complementary therapies, such as
probiotics that reportedly protect patients against P. aeruginosa infection,
would be particularly beneficial. However, the major mechanism underlying the
clinical effects is not completely understood. We thus aimed to investigate how
probiotics affect IL-8 and human beta-defensin 2 (hBD-2) in P.
aeruginosa-infected intestinal epithelial cells (IECs). We infected SW480 IECs
with wild type PAO1 P. aeruginosa following probiotic treatment with
Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG or Bifidobacterium longum spp. infantis S12, and
analysed the mRNA expression and secreted protein of IL-8 and hBD-2, Akt
signalling and NOD1 receptor protein expression. We observed that probiotics
enhanced hBD-2 expression but suppressed IL-8 responses when administered before 
infection. They also enhanced P. aeruginosa-induced membranous NOD1 protein
expression and Akt activation. The siRNA-mediated Akt or NOD1 knockdown
counteracted P. aeruginosa-induced IL-8 or hBD-2 expression, indicating
regulatory effects of these probiotics. In conclusion, these data suggest that
probiotics exert reciprocal regulation of inflammation and antimicrobial peptides
in P. aeruginosa-infected IECs and provide supporting evidence for applying
probiotics to reduce antibiotic overuse.

DOI: 10.1177/1753425920959410 
PMID: 32988256 

