
1. Animals (Basel). 2020 Apr 2;10(4). pii: E612. doi: 10.3390/ani10040612.

Fermentative Quality and Animal Acceptability of Ensiled Persimmon Skin with
Absorbents for Practical Use in Ruminant Feed.

Mousa SA(1)(2), Takeda K(1), Kurosu K(3), Uyeno Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Science and Technology, Shinshu University, Minamiminowa
3994511, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, South Valley University, Qena 83523, Egypt.
(3)Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., Tokyo 1140002, Japan.

Persimmon skin (PS), while representing an attractive feed source, requires an
appropriate preservation procedure to increase its shelf life. We assessed the
fermentation quality, in vitro ruminal incubation, and intake of persimmon skin
silage ensiled with different dry absorbents. We prepared the silage on a table
scale (Experiment 1) and evaluated five different mixtures: PS without an
additive, PS plus Lactobacillus buchneri inoculum (LB), and PS plus LB plus each 
of the absorbents kraft pulp, wheat bran, or beet pulp. We opened the laboratory 
bags, kept at 25 Â°C, at 0, 14, 28, and 60 days for fermentation quality and
chemical analysis (n = 3 for each measurement). Further, with an in vitro rumen
simulated cultivation study (Experiment 2), we evaluated the fermentation pattern
of PS with a mixture of two absorbents (kraft pulp and wheat bran) either raw (no
fermentation) or ensiled (n = 4 for each treatment). Finally, we conducted an in 
vivo experiment using six dry ewes assigned based on their body weight to two
experimental groups in a crossover design of two periods (Experiment 3). We fed a
control group a 100% basal diet (tall fescue hay and concentrate mixture) and
ensiled PS (PSS) group, a 20% dry matter substitution of tall fescue with PS
silage mixed with kraft pulp as the sole absorbent. The results of Experiment 1
show, regardless of the absorbents used, the effluent volume of the lab bags was 
lower in absorbent-treated groups (p < 0.001). In Experiment 2, the condition of 
the PS with absorbents (raw or ensiled) did not affect the total gas production
(p > 0.05), but we observed an increased propionate proportion in PSS with
absorbents compared to basal diet (p = 0.019). The proportion of methane to the
total gas in PSS group was considerably reduced compared with that in the other
groups (p < 0.001). As we did this incubation study with a single run, a more
detailed evaluation in the future would verify these observations. In the animal 
trial (Experiment 3), dry matter intake was similar between groups (p > 0.05),
but ewes spent a shorter time eating in the PSS-fed group (p = 0.011). Here we
present the practical use of PSS as part of ruminant feed in which dry absorbents
prevented dry matter loss.

DOI: 10.3390/ani10040612 
PMCID: PMC7222718
PMID: 32252372 

