
1. Food Funct. 2020 Sep 18. doi: 10.1039/d0fo01823f. [Epub ahead of print]

Lactobacillus fermentum CQPC06 in naturally fermented pickles prevents
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease by stabilizing the gut-liver axis in mice.

Mu J(1), Tan F(2), Zhou X(3), Zhao X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Chongqing Collaborative Innovation Center for Functional Food, Chongqing
University of Education, Chongqing 400067, China. zhaoxin@cque.edu.cn and
Chongqing Engineering Research Center of Functional Food, Chongqing University of
Education, Chongqing 400067, China and Chongqing Engineering Laboratory for
Research and Development of Functional Food, Chongqing University of Education,
Chongqing 400067, China and College of Food Science, Southwest University,
Chongqing 400715, China.
(2)Department of Public Health, Our Lady of Fatima University, Valenzuela 838,
Philippines.
(3)Chongqing Collaborative Innovation Center for Functional Food, Chongqing
University of Education, Chongqing 400067, China. zhaoxin@cque.edu.cn and
Chongqing Engineering Research Center of Functional Food, Chongqing University of
Education, Chongqing 400067, China and Chongqing Engineering Laboratory for
Research and Development of Functional Food, Chongqing University of Education,
Chongqing 400067, China.

Herein, we used a HFD/F to induce NAFLD in mice and intervened with CQPC06 to
determine the preventive effect of CQPC06 on NAFLD and its potential regulatory
mechanism. C57BL/6J mice were fed with LFD, HFD/F, HFD/F supplemented with
CQPC06, and HFD/F supplemented with LDBS for 8 weeks to test the properties of
the probiotic. Biochemical and molecular biology methods were used to determine
the levels of related indexes in mouse serum, liver tissue, epididymal fat, small
intestine tissue, and feces. The results showed that CQPC06 exhibited
satisfactory probiotic properties, significantly inhibited mouse weight gain, and
decreased the liver index and serum lipid levels, including ALT, AKP, AST, TC,
TG, LDL-C, LPS, and HDL-C levels. The HOMA-IR index calculated based on the blood
glucose levels and serum insulin levels showed that the HOMA-IR index of NAFLD
mice treated with CQPC06 significantly decreased. From the molecular biology
level, CQPC06 significantly increased the mRNA and protein expression of PPAR-α, 
CYP7A1, CPT1, and LPL in NAFLD mouse livers, and decreased the expression of
PPAR-γ and C/EBP-α. Furthermore, CQPC06 enhanced the expression of ZO-1,
occludin, and claudin-1 in the small intestine of NAFLD mice, and decreased the
expression of CD36. CQPC06 decreased the level of Firmicutes and increased the
levels of Bacteroides and Akkermansia in the feces of NAFLD mice, and the ratio
of Firmicutes/Bacteroides was significantly decreased. CQPC06 is highly resistant
in vitro and survived in the gastrointestinal tract and exerted its probiotic
effect, altered the intestinal microecology of NAFLD mice, and played an
important role in NAFLD prevention through the unique anatomical advantages of
the gut-liver axis. There was a clear preventive effect with high concentrations 
of CQPC06 and it was stronger than that of l-carnitine.

DOI: 10.1039/d0fo01823f 
PMID: 32945305 

