
1. Small. 2020 Sep 3:e2003158. doi: 10.1002/smll.202003158. [Epub ahead of print]

Probiomimetics-Novel Lactobacillus-Mimicking Microparticles Show
Anti-Inflammatory and Barrier-Protecting Effects in Gastrointestinal Models.

Kuhn T(1), Koch M(2), Fuhrmann G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Helmholtz Institute for Pharmaceutical Research Saarland, Department of
Pharmacy, Saarland University, Campus E8 1, Saarbrücken, 66123, Germany.
(2)INM - Leibniz-Institut für Neue Materialien, Campus D2 2, Saarbrücken,
D-66123, Germany.

There is a lack of efficient therapies to treat increasingly prevalent autoimmune
diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease and celiac disease. Membrane
vesicles (MVs) isolated from probiotic bacteria have shown tremendous potential
for treating intestinal inflammatory diseases. However, possible dilution effects
and rapid elimination in the gastrointestinal tract may impair their application.
A cell-free and anti-inflammatory therapeutic system-probiomimetics-based on MVs 
of probiotic bacteria (Lactobacillus casei and Lactobacillus plantarum) coupled
to the surface of microparticles is developed. The MVs are isolated and
characterized for size and protein content. MV morphology is determined using
cryoelectron microscopy and is reported for the first time in this study. MVs are
nontoxic against macrophage-like dTHP-1 and enterocyte-like Caco-2 cell lines.
Subsequently, the MVs are coupled onto the surface of microparticles according to
facile aldehyde-group functionalization to obtain probiomimetics. A significant
reduction in proinflammatory TNF-α level (by 86%) is observed with probiomimetics
but not with native MVs. Moreover, it is demonstrated that probiomimetics have
the ability to ameliorate inflammation-induced loss of intestinal barrier
function, indicating their potential for further development into an
anti-inflammatory formulation. These engineered simple probiomimetics that elicit
striking anti-inflammatory effects are a key step toward therapeutic MV
translation.

© 2020 The Authors. Published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/smll.202003158 
PMID: 32885611 

