
1. Microb Biotechnol. 2020 Jul 6. doi: 10.1111/1751-7915.13623. [Epub ahead of
print]

The bacterial community and metabolome dynamics and their interactions modulate
fermentation process of whole crop corn silage prepared with or without
inoculants.

Xu D(1)(2), Wang N(3), Rinne M(4), Ke W(1)(2), Weinberg ZG(5), Da M(3), Bai
J(1)(2), Zhang Y(1)(2), Li F(1)(2), Guo X(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Grassland and Agro-ecosystems, School of Life
Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, 730000, China.
(2)Probiotics and Biological Feed Research Center, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou,
730000, China.
(3)Nextomics Biosciences Institute, Wuhan, 430000, China.
(4)Natural Resources Institute Finland (Luke) Animale, Jokioinen, 31600, Finland.
(5)Microbial Food-Safety Research Unit, Department of Food Quality and Safety,
The Volcani Center, Agriculture Research Organization, Institute for Postharvest 
and Food Sciences, Derech HaMaccabim Road 68, POB 15159, Rishon-LeZion, 7528809, 
Israel.

Multi-omics approach was adopted to investigate the modulation of bacterial
microbiota and metabolome as well as their interactions in whole crop corn
ensiling systems by inoculating homofermentative Lactobacillus plantarum or
heterofermentative Lactobacillus buchneri. Inoculations of the two different
inoculants resulted in substantial differences in microbial community and
metabolic composition as well as their dynamics in ensiled corn. Inoculants also 
altered the correlations of microbiota in different manners, and various keystone
species were identified in corn silages with different treatments. Many
metabolites with biofunctional activities like bacteriostatic, antioxidant,
central nervous system inhibitory and anti-inflammatory were found in the present
silage. A constitutive difference in microbiota dynamics was found for several
pathways, which were upregulated by specific taxa in middle stage of
fermentation, and widespread associations between metabolites with biofunctions
and the species of lactic acid bacteria dominated in silage were observed.
Multiple microbial and metabolic structures and dynamics were correlated and
affected the fermentation process of the corn ensiling systems. Results of the
current study improve our understanding of the complicated biological process
underlying silage fermentation and provide a framework to re-evaluate silages
with biofunctions, which may contribute to target-based regulation methods to
produce functional silage for animal production.

Â© 2020 The Authors. Microbial Biotechnology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd
and Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-7915.13623 
PMID: 32627363 

