
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Oct;103(10):8761-8770. doi: 10.3168/jds.2020-18349. Epub 2020
Jul 23.

Using lactic acid bacteria and packaging with grapefruit seed extract for
controlling Listeria monocytogenes growth in fresh soft cheese.

Lim JY(1), Lee CL(1), Kim GH(1), Bang YJ(1), Rhim JW(1), Yoon KS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food and Nutrition, College of Human Ecology, Kyung Hee
University, Seoul 02447, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Food and Nutrition, College of Human Ecology, Kyung Hee
University, Seoul 02447, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: ksyoon@khu.ac.kr.

Various cheese products are involved in outbreaks of listeriosis worldwide due to
high consumption and prolonged refrigerated storage. The objective of this study 
was to determine the efficacy of using lactic acid bacteria and packaging with
grapefruit seed extract (GSE) for controlling Listeria monocytogenes growth in
soft cheese. Leuconostoc mesenteroides and Lactobacillus curvatus isolated from
kimchi were used as a starter culture to make a soft cheese, which was inoculated
with a cocktail strain of L. monocytogenes. The soft cheese was packed with
low-density polyethylene, biodegradable polybutylene adipate-co-terephthalate
(PBAT), low-density polyethylene with GSE, or PBAT with GSE and stored at 10°C
and 15°C. Leuconostoc mesenteroides (LcM) better inhibited the growth of L.
monocytogenes than Lb. curvatus. The PBAT with GSE film showed the best control
for the growth of L. monocytogenes. When both LcM and PBAT with GSE were applied 
to the soft cheese, the growth of L. monocytogenes was inhibited significantly
more than the use of LcM or PBAT with GSE alone. In all test groups, water
activity, pH, and moisture on a fat-free basis decreased, and titratable acidity 
increased compared with the control group. These results suggest that LcM
isolated from kimchi and PBAT with GSE packaging film can be used as a hurdle
technology to lower the risk of L. monocytogenes in soft cheese at the retail
market.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-18349 
PMID: 32713695 

