
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Feb 21;8(2). pii: E301. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8020301.

Identification of Species and Subspecies of Lactic Acid Bacteria Present in
Spanish Cheeses Type "Torta" by MALDI-TOF MS and pheS gene Analyses.

Sánchez-Juanes F(1)(2), Teixeira-Martín V(3), González-Buitrago JM(1)(2),
Velázquez E(3)(4), Flores-Félix JD(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Investigación Biomédica de Salamanca (IBSAL), Complejo
Asistencial Universitario de Salamanca, Universidad de Salamanca, CSIC, 37007
Salamanca, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Bioquímica y Biología Molecular, Universidad de Salamanca,
37007 Salamanca, Spain.
(3)Departamento de Microbiología y Genética and Instituto Hispanoluso de
Investigaciones Agrarias (CIALE), Universidad de Salamanca, Edificio
Departamental de Biología, Lab 209. Av. Doctores de la Reina S/N, 37007
Salamanca, Spain.
(4)Unidad Asociada Grupo de Interacción Planta-Microorganismo (Universidad de
Salamanca-IRNASA-CSIC), 37007 Salamanca, Spain.

Several artisanal cheeses are elaborated in European countries, being commonly
curdled with rennets of animal origin. However, in some Spanish regions some
cheeses of type "Torta" are elaborated using Cynara cardunculus L. rennets. Two
of these cheeses, "Torta del Casar" and "Torta de Trujillo", are elaborated in
Cáceres province with ewe's raw milk and matured over at least 60 days without
starters. In this work, we identified the lactic acid bacteria present in these
cheeses using MALDI-TOF MS and pheS gene analyses, which showed they belong to
the species Lactobacillus curvatus, Lactobacillus diolivorans, Lactobacillus
paracasei, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Lactococcus lactis
and Leuconostoc mesenteroides. The pheS gene analysis also allowed the
identification of the subspecies La. plantarum subsp. plantarum, La. paracasei
subsp. paracasei and Le. mesenteroides subsp. jonggajibkimchii. Low similarity
values were found in this gene for some currently accepted subspecies of Lc.
lactis and for the two subspecies of La. plantarum, and values near to 100% for
the subspecies of Le. mesenteroides and La. paracasei. These results, which were 
confirmed by the calculated ANIb and dDDH values of their whole genomes, showed
the need to revise the taxonomic status of these species and their subspecies.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8020301 
PMCID: PMC7074959
PMID: 32098253 

