
1. Front Immunol. 2020 Feb 25;11:273. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.00273. eCollection
2020.

Interplay Between Human Gut Bacteria Escherichia coli and Lactobacillus mucosae
in the Occurrence of Neuropsychiatric Disorders in Mice.

Kim JK(1)(2), Lee KE(1)(2), Lee SA(1)(2), Jang HM(1)(2), Kim DH(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiota Research Center, Department of Pharmacy, Kyung Hee University,
Seoul, South Korea.
(2)Department of Life and Nanopharmaceutical Sciences, Kyung Hee University,
Seoul, South Korea.

To understand the roles of human gut bacteria in the occurrence of
neuropsychiatric disorders, we isolated inflammatory Escherichia coli K1 and
anti-inflammatory Lactobacillus mucosae from healthy human feces and examined
their effects on the occurrence of altered microbiota, cognitive decline, and
depression in mice. Oral gavage of Escherichia coli K1 caused colitis, cognitive 
decline, and depression in mice in the elevated plus maze, tail suspension, and
forced swimming tasks. However, NK41 treatment reduced K1-induced cognitive
decline and anxiety/depression. Furthermore, NK41 treatment increased
K1-suppressed brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression and BDNF+/NeuN+
cell population and suppressed K1-induced NF-κB activation and LPS+/Iba1+ and
NF-κB+/Iba1+ (microglial) cell populations in the hippocampus. NK41 treatment
also suppressed K1-induced TNF-α and LPS levels in the blood and TNF-α
expression, myeloperoxidase activity, NF-κB+/CD11c+ and CD11b+/CD11c+ cell
populations in the colon. Furthermore, NK41 treatment decreased K1-induced
colonic MUC2 expression, gut Proteobacteria population, and fecal LPS levels and 
modified the bacterial abundance related to polysaccharide breaking and
biosynthesis. In conclusion, the overgrowth of inflammatory bacteria such as
Escherichia coli in the gastrointestinal tract can cause neuropsychiatric
disorders with gut microbiota alteration and the superiority of anti-inflammatory
bacteria such as Lactobacillus mucosae can alleviate neuropsychiatric disorders
with the attenuation of altered microbiota.

Copyright © 2020 Kim, Lee, Lee, Jang and Kim.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.00273 
PMCID: PMC7051986
PMID: 32158447 

