
1. Metabolites. 2020 Jul 17;10(7). pii: E293. doi: 10.3390/metabo10070293.

An NMR Metabolomics Approach to Investigate Factors Affecting the Yoghurt
Fermentation Process and Quality.

Trimigno A(1), Bøge Lyndgaard C(2), Atladóttir GA(2), Aru V(1), Balling Engelsen 
S(1), Harder Clemmensen LK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Chemometrics and Analytical Technology Section, Department of Food Science,
University of Copenhagen, Rolighedsvej 26, 1958 Frederiksberg C, Denmark.
(2)DTU COMPUTE, Department of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science, Technical
University of Denmark, Richard Petersens Plads, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark.

A great number of factors can influence milk fermentation for yoghurt production 
such as fermentation conditions, starter cultures and milk characteristics. It is
important for dairy companies to know the best combinations of these parameters
for a controlled fermentation and for the desired qualities of yoghurt. This
study investigates the use of a 1H-NMR metabolomics approach to monitor the
changes in milk during fermentation from time 0 to 24 h, taking samples every
hour in the first 8 h and then at the end-point at 24 h. Three different starter 
cultures (L. delbrueckii ssp. bulgaricus, S. thermophilus and their combination) 
were used and two different heat treatments (99 or 105 °C) were applied to milk. 
The results clearly show the breakdown of proteins and lactose as well as the
concomitant increase in acetate, lactate and citrate during fermentation. Formate
is found at different initial concentrations depending on the heat treatment of
the milk and its different time trajectory depends on the starter cultures:
Lactobacillus cannot produce formate, but needs it for growth, whilst
Streptococcus is able to produce formate from pyruvate, therefore promoting the
symbiotic relationship between the two strains. On the other hand, Lactobacillus 
can hydrolyze milk proteins into amino acids, enriching the quality of the final 
product. In this way, better insight into the protocooperation of lactic acid
bacteria strains and information on the impact of a greater heat treatment in the
initial matrix were obtained. The global chemical view on the fermentations
provided using NMR is key information for yoghurt producers and companies
producing starter cultures.

DOI: 10.3390/metabo10070293 
PMCID: PMC7408429
PMID: 32709034 

