
1. Benef Microbes. 2020 Aug 12;11(4):375-390. doi: 10.3920/BM2019.0198. Epub 2020
Aug 5.

New immunobiotics from highly proteolytic Lactobacillus delbrueckii strains:
their impact on intestinal antiviral innate immune response.

Elean M(1), Albarracín L(1)(2), Cataldo PG(1), Londero A(3), Kitazawa H(2)(4),
Saavedra L(1), Villena J(1)(2), Hebert EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Reference Centre for Lactobacilli (CERELA-CONICET), Calle Batalla de Chacabuco
145, Tucuman, 4000, Argentina.
(2)Food and Feed Immunology Group, Laboratory of Animal Products Chemistry,
Graduate School of Agricultural Science, Tohoku University, Sendai, 984-0051,
Japan.
(3)Instituto de Genética Veterinaria 'Ing. Fernando Noel Dulout', Universidad
Nacional de La Plata, La Plata, Argentina.
(4)Livestock Immunology Unit, International Education and Research Center for
Food Agricultural Immunology (CFAI), Graduate School of Agricultural Science,
Tohoku University, Sendai, 984-0051, Japan.

Proteolytic starter cultures with intrinsic immunomodulatory activities are
desirably features for the development of functional foods, which would
significantly reduce the cost of their production (one-strain starter) having an 
additional beneficial effect on the host. In this work, Lactobacillus delbrueckii
strains were selected according to their ability to efficiently hydrolyse
β-casein and to modulate the immune system. Among 36 strains evaluated, the
highest proteolytic activities were found for L. delbrueckii subsp. lactis CRL581
and L. delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus CRL656. The immunomodulatory effect of both 
strains and their β-casein hydrolysates (CRL581 and CRL656 hydrolysates,
respectively) were studied in a murine model. Balb/c mice were fed lactobacilli
or their hydrolysates for three days. One day after the last lactobacilli or
hydrolysate treatments, mice were challenged with the Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3)
agonist poly(I:C) by intraperitoneal injection. Before and after poly(I:C)
challenge the phagocytic and microbicidal activity of peritoneal macrophages,
intestinal immunoglobulin A (IgA), cytokine profile, and histological analysis of
the intestine were analysed. L. delbrueckii subsp. lactis CRL581 significantly
increased the activation of peritoneal macrophages as well as the levels of
intestinal IgA, interleukin (IL)-10 and interferon (IFN)-γ when compared to
untreated controls. In addition, the CRL581 strain was able to significantly
reduce the intestinal inflammatory damage triggered by TLR3 activation. L.
delbrueckii CRL581 increased the levels of IL-10, IFN-γ and IFN-β, and reduced
tumour necrosis factor alpha and IL-6 concentrations in the intestine of
poly(I:C)-challenged mice. No immunomodulatory effects were observed for the
CRL656 strain or for the CRL581 or CRL656 hydrolysates. The results of this work 
show that the technologically relevant and high proteolytic strain L. delbrueckii
CRL581 is able to beneficially modulate the intestinal innate antiviral immune
response. Although further studies with the CRL581 strain are required to
corroborate and deepen its immunological effects, this bacterium is an
interesting alternative for the development of new functional foods with
antiviral capabilities.

DOI: 10.3920/BM2019.0198 
PMID: 32755264 

