
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 Oct 2. pii: AEM.01738-20. doi: 10.1128/AEM.01738-20.
[Epub ahead of print]

Inulin fermentation by lactobacilli and bifidobacteria from dairy calves.

Zhu Y(1)(2), Liu J(1)(2), Lopez JM(1)(2), Mills DA(3)(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Robert Mondavi Institute for Wine
and Food Science, University of California, Davis, One Shields Ave., Davis, CA
95616.
(2)Foods for Health Institute, University of California, Davis, California, One
Shields Ave., Davis, CA 95616.
(3)Department of Food Science and Technology, Robert Mondavi Institute for Wine
and Food Science, University of California, Davis, One Shields Ave., Davis, CA
95616 damills@ucdavis.edu.
(4)Department of Viticulture and Enology, Robert Mondavi Institute for Wine and
Food Science, University of California, Davis, California, One Shields Ave.,
Davis, CA 95616.

Prebiotics are increasingly examined for their ability to modulate the neonate
gut microbiota of livestock and products such as inulin are commonly added to
milk replacer used in calving. However, the ability of specific members of the
bovine neonate microbiota to respond to inulin remains to be determined,
particularly among indigenous lactobacilli and bifidobacteria, beneficial genera 
commonly enriched by inulin. Screening of Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus
isolates obtained from fresh feces of dairy calves revealed that lactobacilli had
a higher prevalence of inulin fermentation capacity (58%) than bifidobacteria
(17%). Several Ligilactobacillus agilis comb. nov. (formerly Lactobacillus
agilis) isolates exhibited vigorous growth on, and complete degradation of,
inulin however the phenotype was strain-specific. The most vigorous inulin
fermenting strain, L. agilis YZ050, readily degraded long chain inulin not
consumed by bifidobacterial isolates. Comparative genomic analysis of both L.
agilis fermenter and non-fermenter strains indicated that strain YZ050 encodes an
inulinase homolog, previously linked to extracellular degradation of long-chain
inulin in Lacticaseibacillus paracasei comb. nov., that was strongly induced
during growth on inulin. Inulin catabolism by YZ050 also generates extracellular 
fructose which can serve as a growth substrate to cross feed other
non-inulin-fermenting lactic acid bacteria isolated from the same bovine feces.
The presence of specific inulin-responsive bacterial strains within calf gut
microbiome provides a mechanistic rationale for enrichment of specific
lactobacilli and creates a foundation for future synbiotic applications in dairy 
calves aimed at improving health in early life.IMPORTANCE The gut microbiome
plays an important role in animal health and is increasingly recognized as a
target for diet-based manipulation. Inulin is a common prebiotic routinely added 
to animal feeds, however, the mechanism of inulin consumption by specific
beneficial taxa in livestock is ill defined. In this study we examined
Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium isolates from calves fed inulin-containing milk
replacer and characterized specific strains that robustly consume long chain
inulin. In particular, a novel Ligilactobacillus agilis strain YZ050 consumed
inulin via an extracellular fructosidase resulting in complete consumption of all
long chain inulin. Inulin catabolism resulted in temporal release of
extracellular fructose that can promote growth of other non-inulin consuming LAB 
strains. This work provides the mechanistic insight needed to purposely modulate 
the calf gut microbiome via the establishment of networks of beneficial microbes 
linked to specific prebiotics.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01738-20 
PMID: 33008824 

