
1. Food Chem. 2020 Dec 15;333:127527. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.127527. Epub 2020
Jul 9.

A novel fermented soybean, inoculated with selected Bacillus, Lactobacillus and
Hansenula strains, showed strong antioxidant and anti-fatigue potential activity.

Cui J(1), Xia P(1), Zhang L(1), Hu Y(1), Xie Q(2), Xiang H(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin 130012, PR China.
(2)Key Laboratory for Molecular Enzymology and Engineering of Ministry of
Education, School of Life Sciences, Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin 130012, PR
China; National Engineering Laboratory for AIDS Vaccine, School of Life Sciences,
Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin 130012, PR China; School of Life Sciences,
Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin 130012, PR China. Electronic address:
qhxie@jlu.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory for Molecular Enzymology and Engineering of Ministry of
Education, School of Life Sciences, Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin 130012, PR
China; National Engineering Laboratory for AIDS Vaccine, School of Life Sciences,
Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin 130012, PR China; School of Life Sciences,
Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin 130012, PR China. Electronic address:
hyxiang@jlu.edu.cn.

The aim of this study was to develop a novel fermented soybean food (FSF) using
selected Bacillus subtilis GD1, Bacillus subtilis N4, Bacillus velezensis GZ1,
Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus and Hansenula anomala, as well as to 
assess its antioxidant and anti-fatigue activity. These Bacillus strains had
excellent enzyme producing and soybean transformation capacity. FSF showed the
highest peptide, total phenol, total flavonoid content, antioxidant activity, and
suitable organic acid and biological amine content. In intense exercise mice, FSF
treatment markedly increased hepatic glycogen level, decreased metabolite
accumulation, improved the activities of antioxidant enzymes and decreased
malondialdehyde (MDA) level in serum and liver, respectively. Furthermore, FSF
treatment increased nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and
antioxidant response element (ARE)-dependent gene expression. Together, the
selection of microbial starter culture and mixed culture fermentation are
essential for the effective enrichment of bioactive compounds, and FSF has
stronger antioxidant and anti-fatigue activity.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.127527 
PMID: 32683263 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

