
1. Inflammation. 2020 Sep 10. doi: 10.1007/s10753-020-01339-1. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of Lactobacillus casei Strain T2 (IBRC-M10783) on the Modulation of
Th17/Treg and Evaluation of miR-155, miR-25, and IDO-1 Expression in a
Cuprizone-Induced C57BL/6 Mouse Model of Demyelination.

Gharehkhani Digehsara S(1), Name N(1), Esfandiari B(2), Karim E(1), Taheri S(2), 
Tajabadi-Ebrahimi M(1), Arasteh J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Central Tehran Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tehran,
Iran.
(2)Department of Biology, Islamshahr Branch, Islamic Azad University, Islamshahr,
Iran.
(3)Department of Biology, Central Tehran Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tehran,
Iran. j.arasteh@iauctb.ac.ir.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a complex inflammatory disease in which demyelination 
occurs in the central nervous system affecting approximately 2.5 million people
worldwide. Recent reports have shown that the gut microbiome plays a crucial role
in the functioning of the immune system in inflammatory diseases such as MS. In
this study, the cuprizone-induced demyelination mouse model was used to
investigate the effect of Lactobacillus casei strain T2 (IBRC-M10783) on the
alleviation of these mice. Female C57BL/6 mice (8-10 weeks old) were divided into
6 groups: group 1, normal control; group 2, cuprizone control (oral
administration of cuprizone 0.2% w/w for 4 weeks); group 3, probiotic control
(oral administration of 1 × 109 CFU/ml probiotic for 4 weeks); group 4, treatment
1 (probiotic for 4 weeks then cuprizone for 4 weeks); group 5, treatment 2
(cuprizone for 4 weeks then probiotic for 4 weeks); and group 6, treatment 3
(cuprizone for 4 weeks then probiotic for 4 weeks with vitamin D3 at a dose of
20 IU/day). Then, TGF-β and IL-17 were measured by ELISA, and the expression of
miR-155, miR-25, and IDO-1 was evaluated by real-time PCR. Among the measured
microRNAs, the results showed that there was a significant decrease in miR-155
expression between the treatment 1 group and the cuprizone group. In the case of 
IL-17, the results also showed a significant reduction between the three
treatment groups and the cuprizone group. These observations suggest that L.
casei can reduce proinflammatory cytokines and reduce demyelinating symptoms in
the mouse model.

DOI: 10.1007/s10753-020-01339-1 
PMID: 32914363 

