
1. Microbiol Res. 2020 Sep 17;241:126597. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126597. [Epub
ahead of print]

Light at night affects gut microbial community and negatively impacts host
physiology in diurnal animals: Evidence from captive zebra finches.

Malik I(1), Batra T(1), Das S(1), Kumar V(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Delhi, Delhi, 110 007, India.
(2)Department of Zoology, University of Delhi, Delhi, 110 007, India. Electronic 
address: vkumar@zoology.du.ac.in.

The gastrointestinal tract (GIT) hosts a large number of diverse microorganisms, 
with mutualistic interactions with the host. Here, in two separate experiments,
we investigated whether light at night (LAN) would affect GIT microbiota and, in 
turn, the host physiology in diurnal zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata).
Experiment I assessed the effects of no-night (LL) and dimly illuminated night
(dim light at night, dLAN) on fecal microbiota diversity and host physiology of
birds born and raised under 12 h photoperiod (LD; 12 h light: 12 h darkness).
Under LL and dLAN, compared to LD, we found a significant increase in the body
mass, subcutaneous fat deposition and hepatic accumulation of lipids. Although we
found no difference in total 24 h food consumption, LL/ dLAN birds ate also at
night, suggesting LAN-induced alteration in daily feeding times. Concurrently,
there were marked differences in amplicon sequence and bacterial species richness
between LD and LAN, with notable decline in Lactobacillus richness in birds under
LL and dLAN. We attributed declined Lactobacillus population as causal (at least 
partially) to negative effects on the host metabolism. Therefore, in experiment
II with similar protocol, birds under LL and dLAN were fed on diet with or
without Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG) supplement. Clearly, LGG supplement
ameliorated LL- and dLAN-induced negative effects in zebra finches. These results
demonstrate adverse effects of unnatural lighting on GIT bacterial diversity and 
host physiology, and suggest the role of GIT microbiota in the maintenance of
metabolic homeostasis in response to LAN environment in diurnal animals.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126597 
PMID: 32979783 

