
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Sep 29. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-02037-0. [Epub ahead of
print]

Identification and in vitro evaluation of probiotic attributes of lactic acid
bacteria isolated from fermented food sources.

Bindu A(1), Lakshmidevi N(2).

Author information: 
(1)DOS in Microbiology, University of Mysore, Manasa Gangothri, Mysore, 570,
India.
(2)DOS in Microbiology, University of Mysore, Manasa Gangothri, Mysore, 570,
India. lakshmiavina@rediffmail.com.

Consumer's vigilance towards health-promoting foods beyond only taste and
nutrition has increased the recognition for probiotic products. In the present
study, various parameters have been studied to define the probiotic properties of
cultures isolated from different fermented products. Around 118 samples were
selectively screened for antimicrobial compound (AMC) producing isolates by
overlay-plate assay using Micrococcus luteus ATCC9341. Among 134 zone producing
isolates, 48 cultures showing Gram-positive, catalase negative, non-spore forming
and non-motile rods and cocci were selected. Subsequently, 18 strains were chosen
based on non-hemolytic, absence of biogenic amine production, gelatinase and
lecithinase negative trait for safer isolates. These were identified by
biochemical assays and then subjected to RAPD-PCR. The selected cultures DB-1aa, 
DB-b2-15b, Cu2-PM7, Cu3-PM8 and IB-pM15 were identified by 16S rDNA sequencing as
Enterococcus durans, Enterococcus faecium, Lactobacillus plantarum, and two
Lactobacillus fermentum, respectively. Several in vitro experiments were carried 
out including acid and bile tolerance, survival under simulated gastrointestinal 
condition, adhesion assay to evaluate the probiotic potential of the isolates. In
addition, the isolates were studied for competent properties such as
antibacterial, antioxidant activity, and enzyme production for their functional
application. The results of the study prove the efficiency of selected isolates
as potential probiotic cultures and hence can be recommended for application in
any functional food formulations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-02037-0 
PMID: 32990771 

