
1. J Ethnopharmacol. 2020 Aug 1;265:113236. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113236. [Epub
ahead of print]

Germinated black soybean fermented with Lactobacillus pentosus SC65 alleviates
DNFB-induced delayed-type hypersensitivity in C57BL/6N mice.

Lee HJ(1), Cho HE(1), Park HJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Biotechnology, College of BioNano, Gachon
University, 1342 Seongnam-daero, Sujeong-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, 461-701,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Food Science and Biotechnology, College of BioNano, Gachon
University, 1342 Seongnam-daero, Sujeong-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, 461-701,
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: nimpi79@hanmail.net.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Rhynchosia nulubilis (black soybean) has many
applications in oriental medicine. It is traditionally used to treat disease
related with high blood pressure, diabetes, inflammation, and osteoporosis.
Furthermore, fermented soybean foods have traditionally been used for immunity
enhancement in East Asia. However, the anti-inflammatory effects of germinated
R. nulubilis (GR) against delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) are not fully
understood.
AIM OF STUDY: This study aimed to investigate the anti-inflammatory effects of
germinated Rhynchosia nulubilis (GR) fermented with the lactic acid bacterium
Lactobacillus pentosus SC65 (GR-SC65) isolated from pickled burdock.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We investigated the effects of GR-SC65 (300 mg/kg/day) on 
ear thickness and immune cell infiltration in DNFB-induced DTH in mice. We used
dexamethasone (3 mg/kg) as a reference drug. Changes in infiltration of CD4+ and 
CD8+ T cells and NK cells were examined by immunohistochemistry. In addition, we 
investigated cytokine and chemokine production related to DTH using reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction. We also investigated DTH-related
cytokine production using lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW 264.7
macrophage cells.
RESULTS: Two lactic acid bacterial strains (Lactobacillus pentosus SC65 and
Pediococcus pentosaceus ON81A) were selected for fermenting GR due to their high 
2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical-scavenging activity. The total
polyphenol contents (TPCs) in GR-SC65 and GR-ON81A were higher than that in
unfermented GR (∗∗∗P < 0.001 vs. GR). Content of daidzein, glycitein, and
genistein, the deglycosylated form of isoflavonoids, was higher in GR-SC65 than
in unfermented GR. The ethanol extracts of GR-SC65 exerted a stronger
anti-inflammatory activity than GR by inhibiting pro-inflammatory cytokines, such
as tumor necrosis factor (TNF), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) 
in LPS-induced RAW264.7 macrophages. GR-SC65 reduced
1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB)-induced ear swelling and hyperplasia as 
well as vascular permeability. Fewer infiltrated CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were
observed in the ear tissue of the GR-SC65-treated mice than those of the
unfermented GR-treated mice. Furthermore, fewer infiltrated NK cells were
observed in the GR-SC65 treated mice, than in the GR-treated mice. GR-SC65
significantly diminished the levels of CCL5 and COX-2 mRNAs and increased the
level of IL-10 mRNA.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that GR-SC65 can be used as a health supplement
or a prophylactic against delayed-type hypersensitive inflammatory disease.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113236 
PMID: 32750462 

