
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Jun;104(11):4903-4913. doi:
10.1007/s00253-020-10588-x. Epub 2020 Apr 8.

Expression of a β-glucosidase in bacteria with biotechnological interest confers 
them the ability to deglycosylate lignans and flavonoids in vegetal foods.

Gaya P(1), Peirotén Á(1), Landete JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Tecnología de Alimentos, Instituto Nacional de Investigación y
Tecnología Agraria y Alimentaria (INIA), Carretera de la Coruña Km 7.5, 28040,
Madrid, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Tecnología de Alimentos, Instituto Nacional de Investigación y
Tecnología Agraria y Alimentaria (INIA), Carretera de la Coruña Km 7.5, 28040,
Madrid, Spain. landete.josem@inia.es.

Lignans and flavonoids are found in plants in their glycosylated forms and need
to be hydrolyzed to aglycones to become bioavailable. Putative β-glucosidase
genes from Lactobacillus mucosae INIA P508 were inserted into the plasmid
pNZ:TuR. The strain Lactococcus lactis MG1363 harboring the plasmid
pNZ:TuR.glu913 showed high β-glucosidase activity and was able to transform
secoisolariciresinol diglucoside (SDG) into secoisolariciresinol (SECO). Lactic
acid bacteria and Bifidobacterium strains harboring pNZ:TuR.glu913 were incubated
with a soy beverage supplemented with flax seed extracts. SDG was almost
completely consumed by the transformed strains, while concentration of SECO
greatly increased. Moreover, these strains showed high deglycosylation of the
isoflavone glycosides daidzin and genistin. In addition, other lignan and
flavonoid aglycones were produced, i.e. matairesinol, pinoresinol, quercetin, and
eriodyctiol. These deglycosylase activities were maintained when this glucosidase
gene was cloned in a food grade vector, pLEB590, and transformed into L. lactis
MG1363. This is the first report of the use of a food grade plasmid that confers 
the ability to efficiently catalyze the deglycosylation of lignans,
isoflavonoids, flavones, and flavanones. The recombinant bacteria of this study
would be of value for the development of fermented vegetal foods enriched in
bioavailable forms of lignans and flavonoids.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10588-x 
PMID: 32270251 

