
1. J Biotechnol. 2020 Aug 20;323:180-188. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.08.010. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Combining the production of L-lactic acid with the production of feed protein
concentrates from alfalfa.

Santamaría-Fernández M(1), Schneider R(2), Lübeck M(3), Venus J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Section for Sustainable Biotechnology, Department of Chemistry and Bioscience,
Aalborg University Copenhagen, A C Meyers Vaenge 15, 2450, Copenhagen, SV,
Denmark.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, Leibniz Institute for Agricultural Engineering
and Bioeconomy, Max-Eyth-Allee 100, Potsdam, 14469, Germany.
(3)Section for Sustainable Biotechnology, Department of Chemistry and Bioscience,
Aalborg University Copenhagen, A C Meyers Vaenge 15, 2450, Copenhagen, SV,
Denmark. Electronic address: mel@bio.aau.dk.

The production of L-lactic acid was investigated in combination with the
production of protein concentrates in the frame of a green biorefinery for
efficient utilization of grasses and legume crops. Alfalfa green juice was the
sole substrate utilized for initial lactic acid fermentation with Lactobacillus
salivarius, Lactobacillus paracasei or Bacillus coagulans in order to drop the pH
and precipitate the plant proteins present in the juice. Afterwards, proteins
were separated by microfiltration with 40-42% of protein recovery into protein
concentrates, suited for feeding monogastric animals. The (residual) brown juice 
was investigated as source of nutrients for producing L-lactic acid from glucose 
or xylose with B. coagulans A107 or B. coagulans A166, respectively. Fermentation
of glucose (30, 60, 100 g L-1) resulted in productivities of 2.8-4.0 g L-1 h-1
and yields of 0.85-0.91 g LA per g consumed glucose. Fermentation of xylose (30, 
60 g L-1) resulted productivities of 1.1-2.3 g L-1 h-1 and yields of 0.83-0.88 g 
LA per g consumed xylose. Comparing different brown juices, initial green juice
fermentation with B. coagulans is recommended if the brown juice is to be used
for producing L-lactic acid. Based on our results, it is possible to combine
protein recovery with lactic acid production, and the brown juice proved to be a 
good nutrient source for L-lactic acid production with high optical purities.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.08.010 
PMID: 32828831 

