
1. Arch Gynecol Obstet. 2020 Sep;302(3):569-578. doi: 10.1007/s00404-020-05675-3.
Epub 2020 Jul 8.

The association between vaginal microbiota and female infertility: a systematic
review and meta-analysis.

Hong X(1), Ma J(1), Yin J(1), Fang S(2), Geng J(1), Zhao H(1), Zhu M(1), Ye M(1),
Zhu X(1), Xuan Y(1), Wang B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Environmental Medicine and Engineering of Ministry of
Education, Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of Public
Health, Southeast University, No. 87 dingjiaqiao road, gulou district, Nanjing,
210009, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Mount Sinai Health System, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Key Laboratory of Environmental Medicine and Engineering of Ministry of
Education, Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of Public
Health, Southeast University, No. 87 dingjiaqiao road, gulou district, Nanjing,
210009, Jiangsu, China. wangbeilxb@163.com.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to explore the association between vaginal microbiota
and infertility.
METHODS: We searched a range of electronic databases for appropriate articles,
including PubMed, Web of Science, Embase, Chinese National Knowledge
Infrastructure (CNKI), and Wanfang, from inception to 8th September 2019.
Identified articles were then screened using strict inclusion and exclusion
criteria. By referring to Tamarelle's method, we divided vaginal microbiota into 
two categories: low-Lactobacillus vaginal microbiota (LL-VMB) and
high-Lactobacillus vaginal microbiota (HL-VMB). Patients were defined as HL-VMB
if they had a Nugent score of 0-3, a negative Amesel/Spiegel's test, or if the
vaginal community status was dominated by either L. crispatus, L. iners, L.
gasseri and L. jensenii via 16S rRNA sequencing. Otherwise, cases were regarded
as LL-VMB. Statistical analyses were performed with STATA 13.0 statistical
software. Effect estimates are presented as odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence
intervals (CIs).
RESULTS: Fifteen articles were included in our final analysis. The HL-VMB was
negatively related to infertility; a fixed model showed that the pooled OR was
0.83 (95% CI 0.77-0.90). There was no significant publication bias, as determined
by Begg's test (P = 0.488) and Egger's test (P = 0.652). Using a random effect
model, the pooled OR for intermediate bacterial vaginitis (BV) and infertility
was 1.39 (95% CI 1.10-1.76) and the pooled OR for positive BV was 1.72 (95% CI
1.10-2.69). Subgroup and sensitivity analyses further demonstrated that the
associations identified were stable. However, the acquired evidence was not
sufficient to make inferences with regards to the mechanisms underlying these
relationships.
CONCLUSION: This systematic review and meta-analysis identified a negative
correlation between HL-VMB and female infertility. However, due to a variety of
limitations, the evidence acquired does not allow us to identify the specific
mechanisms underlying this association. Further high-quality studies are needed
to verify the causal relationship and explore the molecular mechanisms involved.

DOI: 10.1007/s00404-020-05675-3 
PMID: 32638096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

