
1. Acta Biochim Pol. 2020 Sep 18;67(3):393-399. doi: 10.18388/abp.2020_5344.

Post hoc analysis of fecal samples from responders and non-responders to
Lactobacillus reuteri DSM 17938 intervention.

Szymanski H(1), Mlynarz P(2), Qasem B(2), Korzeniowska-Kowal A(3), Szponar B(3), 
Kałwak-Baran M(1), Szajewska H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, St Hedwig of Silesia Hospital, Trzebnica, Poland.
(2)Department of Bioorganic Chemistry, Faculty of Chemistry, University of
Science and Technology, Wrocław, Poland.
(3)Department of Immunology of Infectious Diseases, Hirszfeld Institute of
Immunology and Experimental Therapy, Polish Academy of Sciences, Wroclaw, Poland.
(4)The Medical University of Warsaw, Department of Paediatrics, Warsaw, Poland.

We compared fecal samples from responders and non-responders to administration of
Lactobacillus reuteri DSM 17938. Data for this post hoc analysis were collected
from an RCT assessing the efficacy of L. reuteri for the management of acute
gastroenteritis. Responders were defined as subjects with diarrhea lasting no
longer than 48 h. 44 children (17 responders and 27 non-responders) were
analyzed. There were no differences in clinical characteristics and gut
colonization between both groups. In the responder group, there were
significantly lower levels of five metabolites before beginning of the
intervention: lactate, choline, ethanol, creatine, and formate. The fecal
calprotectin level did not differ between groups prior to the intervention, but
its level was significantly lower after intervention in the responder group.
Possibly, the responder group with a "metabolic niche", including lower level of 
metabolites, especially lactate, that are potential products of Lactobacillus
genus, would determine the response to probiotic treatment. These findings need
to be confirmed, but identification of some differences in the fecal metabolomics
and the calprotectin level suggests that further studies are warranted.

DOI: 10.18388/abp.2020_5344 
PMID: 32945647 

