
1. PLoS One. 2020 Sep 14;15(9):e0238993. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0238993.
eCollection 2020.

Lactobacillus strains vary in their ability to interact with human endometrial
stromal cells.

Shiroda M(1), Manning SD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Michigan State University, 
East Lansing, MI, United States of America.

The placental membranes that surround the fetus during pregnancy were suggested
to contain a low abundance microbiota. Specifically, abundance of Lactobacillus, 
a probiotic and dominant member of the microbiome of the lower reproductive
tract, has been shown to correlate with healthy, term pregnancies. We therefore
sought to assess the interactions between four different Lactobacillus strains
with immortalized decidualized endometrial cells (dT-HESCs), which were used as a
model to represent the outermost layer of the placental membranes. Notably, we
demonstrated that all four Lactobacillus strains could associate with dT-HESCs in
vitro. L. crispatus was significantly more successful (p < 0.00005), with 10.6%
of bacteria attaching to the host cells compared to an average of 0.8% for the
remaining three strains. The four strains also varied in their ability to form
biofilms. Dependent on media type, L. reuteri 6475 formed the strongest biofilms 
in vitro. To examine the impact on immune responses, levels of total and
phosphorylated protein p38, a member of the Mitogen Activated Protein Kinase
(MAPK) pathway, were examined following Lactobacillus association with dT-HESCs. 
Total levels of p38 were reduced to an average of 44% that of the cells without
Lactobacillus (p < 0.05). While a trend towards a reduction in phosphorylated p38
was observed, this difference was not significant (p > 0.05). In addition,
association with Lactobacillus did not result in increased host cell death.
Collectively, these data suggest that varying types of Lactobacillus can attach
to the outermost cells of the placental membranes and that these interactions do 
not contribute to inflammatory responses or host cell death. To our knowledge
this is the first in vitro study to support the ability of Lactobacillus to
interact with placental cells, which is important when considering its use as a
potential probiotic within the reproductive tract.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0238993 
PMCID: PMC7489503
PMID: 32925983 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

