
1. Foods. 2020 Sep 3;9(9). pii: E1228. doi: 10.3390/foods9091228.

Innovative Rough Beer Conditioning Process Free from Diatomaceous Earth and
Polyvinylpolypyrrolidone.

Cimini A(1), Moresi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department for Innovation in the Biological, Agrofood and Forestry Systems,
University of Tuscia, 01100 Viterbo, Italy.

In large-sized breweries, rough beer clarification is still carried out using
Kieselguhr filters notwithstanding their environmental and safety implications.
The main aim of this work was to test an innovative rough beer clarification and 
stabilization process involving enzymatic treating with Brewers Clarex®,
centrifuging, rough filtering across 1.4-μm ceramic hollow-fiber membrane at 30
°C, and fine filtering through 0.45-μm cartridge filter. When feeding an
enzymatically-pretreated and centrifuged rough beer with permanent haze (HP) of 2
or 14 European Brewery Convention unit (EBC-U), its primary clarification under
periodic CO2 backflushing yielded a permeate with turbidity of 1.0-1.5 EBC-U at a
high permeation flux (2.173 ± 51 or 593 ± 100 L m-2 h-1), much greater than that 
typical of powder filters. The final beer was brilliant (HP = 0.57 ± 0.08 EBC-U) 
with almost the same colloidal stability of the industrial control and an overall
log reduction value (~5.0 for the selected beer spoilage bacterium or 7.6 for the
brewing yeast) in line with the microbial effectiveness of current sterilizing
membranes. It was perceived as significantly different in flavor and body from
the industrial control at a probability level of 10% by a triangle sensory test, 
as more likely related to the several lab-scale beer-racking steps used than to
the novel process itself.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9091228 
PMID: 32899206 

