
1. Biotechnol Biofuels. 2019 Nov 6;12:262. doi: 10.1186/s13068-019-1594-5.
eCollection 2019.

Microbial 2-butanol production with Lactobacillus diolivorans.

Russmayer H(1)(2), Marx H(1)(2), Sauer M(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)CD Laboratory for Biotechnology of Glycerol, Muthgasse 18, 1190 Vienna,
Austria.
(2)2Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Microbiology and Microbial
Biotechnology, BOKU-VIBT University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences,
Vienna, Muthgasse 18, 1190 Vienna, Austria.
(3)3ACIB GmbH, Muthgasse 11, 1190 Vienna, Austria.

Background: Biobutanol has great potential as biofuel of the future. However,
only a few organisms have the natural ability to produce butanol. Amongst them,
Clostridium spp. are the most efficient producers. The high toxicity of
biobutanol constitutes one of the bottlenecks within the biobutanol production
process which often suffers from low final butanol concentrations and yields.
Butanol tolerance is a key driver for process optimisation and, therefore, in the
search for alternative butanol production hosts. Many Lactobacillus species show 
a remarkable tolerance to solvents and some Lactobacillus spp. are known to
naturally produce 2-butanol from meso-2,3-butanediol (meso-2,3-BTD) during
anaerobic sugar fermentations. Lactobacillus diolivorans showed already to be
highly efficient in the production of other bulk chemicals using a simple
two-step metabolic pathway. Exactly, the same pathway enables this cell factory
for 2-butanol production.
Results: Due to the inability of L. diolivorans to produce meso-2,3-BTD, a
two-step cultivation processes with Serratia marcescens has been developed. S.
marcescens is a very efficient producer of meso-2,3-BTD from glucose. The process
yielded a butanol concentration of 10 g/L relying on wild-type bacterial strains.
A further improvement of the maximum butanol titer was achieved using an
engineered L. diolivorans strain overexpressing the endogenous alcohol
dehydrogenase pduQ. The two-step cultivation process based on the engineered
strain led to a maximum 2-butanol titer of 13.4 g/L, which is an increase of 34%.
Conclusion: In this study, L. diolivorans is for the first time described as a
good natural producer for 2-butanol from meso-2,3-butanediol. Through the
application of a two-step cultivation process with S. marcescens, 2-butanol can
be produced from glucose in a one-vessel, two-step microbial process.

© The Author(s) 2019.

DOI: 10.1186/s13068-019-1594-5 
PMCID: PMC6833138
PMID: 31709011 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.

