
1. Pediatr Gastroenterol Hepatol Nutr. 2020 Sep;23(5):464-471. doi:
10.5223/pghn.2020.23.5.464. Epub 2020 Aug 27.

Efficacy of the Probiotic Probiotical Confirmed in Acute Gastroenteritis.

Kluijfhout S(1), Trieu TV(2), Vandenplas Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)KidZ Health Castle, UZ Brussel, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Brussels, Belgium.
(2)CHL KannerKlinik, Urgences Pédiatriques, Luxembourg, Luxembourg.

Purpose: Some probiotic strains reduce the duration of acute diarrhea. Because of
strain and product specificity, each product needs to be supported by clinical
data. This study aimed to test the efficacy of the synbiotic food supplement
Probiotical (Streptococcus thermophilus, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Lactobacillus
acidophilus, Bifidobacterium lactis, Bifidobacterium infantis,
fructo-oligosaccharides) in children with acute gastroenteritis of likely
infectious origin. The primary endpoint was the number of children with normal
stool consistency during the treatment duration.
Methods: A total of 46 children (aged 3.6 months to 12 years) with acute
gastroenteritis that started less than 48 hours prior to their visit at a
hospital-based emergency department were included in this prospective,
randomized, placebo-controlled trial. All children were treated with oral
rehydration solution and placebo (n=20) or the test product (n=26).
Results: Significantly more children had a normal stool consistency on days 1 and
2 in the probiotic group: 5 children (20%) on day 1 in the probiotic group
compared with none in the placebo group (p=0.046). On day 2, 11 children in the
probiotic group (46%) and 3 (16%) in the placebo group (p=0.024) had a normal
stool consistency. The mean duration of diarrhea was shorter in the probiotic
group compared with that in the placebo group (3.04±1.36 vs. 4.20±1.34 days)
(p=0.018).
Conclusion: The test product was shown to normalize stool consistency
significantly more rapidly than the placebo. These data confirm the findings from
a previous study in a larger group of children performed in a primary healthcare 
setting.

Copyright © 2020 by The Korean Society of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology 
and Nutrition.

DOI: 10.5223/pghn.2020.23.5.464 
PMCID: PMC7481057
PMID: 32953642 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: SK and TVT report no
conflicts of interest. YV has participated as a clinical investigator, advisory
board member, consultant, and/or speaker for Abbott Nutrition, Biocodex, Danone, 
Nestle Health Science, Nestle Nutrition Institute, Nutricia, Mead Johnson,
Phacobel, and United Pharmaceuticals.

