
1. Benef Microbes. 2020 May 11;11(3):269-282. doi: 10.3920/BM2019.0189. Epub 2020
May 4.

Modulation of Toll-like receptor-mediated innate immunity in bovine intestinal
epithelial cells by lactic acid bacteria isolated from feedlot cattle.

Mansilla F(1), Takagi M(2), Garcia-Castillo V(1)(2), Aso H(3)(4), Nader-Macias
ME(1), Vignolo G(1), Kitazawa H(2)(4), Villena J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Reference Centre for Lactobacilli (CERELA-CONICET), Chacabuco 145, San Miguel 
de Tucuman, 4000 Tucuman, Argentina.
(2)Food and Feed Immunology Group, Laboratory of Animal Products Chemistry,
Graduate School of Agricultural Science, Tohoku University, 468-1 Aramaki Aza
Aoba, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8572, Japan.
(3)Cell Biology Laboratory, Graduate School of Agricultural Science, Tohoku
University, 468-1 Aramaki Aza Aoba, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8572, Japan.
(4)Livestock Immunology Unit, International Education and Research Center for
Food Agricultural Immunology (CFAI), Graduate School of Agricultural Science,
Tohoku University, 468-1 Aramaki Aza Aoba, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8572,
Japan.

The ability of lactobacilli isolated from feedlot cattle environment to
differentially modulate the innate immune response triggered by Toll-like
receptors (TLRs) activation in bovine intestinal epithelial (BIE) cells was
evaluated. BIE cells were stimulated with Lactobacillus mucosae CRL2069,
Lactobacillus acidophilus CRL2074, Lactobacillus fermentum CRL2085 or
Lactobacillus rhamnosus CRL2084 and challenged with heat-stable pathogen
associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) from enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli
(ETEC) to induce the activation of TLR4 or with polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid
(poly(I:C)) to activate TLR3. Type I interferons, cytokines, chemokines and
negative regulators of TLR signalling were studied by RT-PCR. L. mucosae CRL2069 
significantly reduced the expression of interleukin (IL)-8 and monocyte
chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 in BIE cells in the context of TLR3 activation.
L. mucosae CRL2069 also reduced the expression of tumour necrosis factor-α, IL-β,
MCP-1, and IL-8 in heat-stable ETEC PAMPs-challenged BIE cells. In addition,
reduced expressions of IL-6, MCP-1, and IL-8 were found in BIE cells stimulated
with L. rhamnosus CRL2084, although its effect was significantly lower than that 
observed for the CRL2069 strain. The reduced levels of pro-inflammatory factors
in BIE cells induced by the CRL2069 and CRL2085 strains was related to their
ability of increasing the expression of TLR negative regulators. L. mucosae
CRL2069 significantly improved the expression of A20-binding inhibitor of NFκ-B
activation 3 (ABIN-3), interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase M (IRAK-M) and
mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (MKP-1) while L. rhamnosus CRL2084 augmented
ABIN-3 expression in BIE cells. The results of this work suggest that among the
studied strains, L. mucosae CRL2069 was able to regulate TLR3-mediated innate
immune response and showed a remarkable capacity to modulate TLR4-mediated
inflammation in BIE cells. The CRL2069 strain induce the up-regulation of three
TLR negative regulators that would influence nuclear factor kB and
mitogen-activated protein kinases signalling pathways while reducing the
expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. Therefore, L. mucosae
CRL2069 is an interesting immunobiotic candidate for the protection of the bovine
host against TLR-mediated intestinal inflammatory damage.

DOI: 10.3920/BM2019.0189 
PMID: 32363914 

