
1. Sci Adv. 2020 Jul 29;6(31):eaba0466. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.aba0466. eCollection
2020 Jul.

Gut dysbiosis contributes to amyloid pathology, associated with C/EBPβ/AEP
signaling activation in Alzheimer's disease mouse model.

Chen C(1), Ahn EH(1), Kang SS(1), Liu X(1), Alam A(2), Ye K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Emory University School of
Medicine, 615 Michael Street, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.
(2)Microbiology, Immunology, and Molecular Genetics, University of Kentucky
College of Medicine, 800 Rose Street, Lexington, KY 40536, USA.

The gut-brain axis is bidirectional, and gut microbiota influence brain disorders
including Alzheimer's disease (AD). CCAAT/enhancer binding protein β/asparagine
endopeptidase (C/EBPβ/AEP) signaling spatiotemporally mediates AD pathologies in 
the brain via cleaving both β-amyloid precursor protein and Tau. We show that gut
dysbiosis occurs in 5xFAD mice, and is associated with escalation of the
C/EBPβ/AEP pathway in the gut with age. Unlike that of aged wild-type mice, the
microbiota of aged 3xTg mice accelerate AD pathology in young 3xTg mice,
accompanied by active C/EBPβ/AEP signaling in the brain. Antibiotic treatment
diminishes this signaling and attenuates amyloidogenic processes in 5xFAD,
improving cognitive functions. The prebiotic R13 inhibits this pathway and
suppresses amyloid aggregates in the gut. R13-induced Lactobacillus salivarius
antagonizes the C/EBPβ/AEP axis, mitigating gut leakage and oxidative stress. Our
findings support the hypothesis that C/EBPβ/AEP signaling is activated by gut
dysbiosis, implicated in AD pathologies in the gut.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors, some rights reserved; exclusive licensee American
Association for the Advancement of Science. No claim to original U.S. Government 
Works. Distributed under a Creative Commons Attribution NonCommercial License 4.0
(CC BY-NC).

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aba0466 
PMCID: PMC7439296
PMID: 32832679 

