
1. Crit Rev Microbiol. 2020 Aug;46(4):433-449. doi: 10.1080/1040841X.2020.1794792.
Epub 2020 Jul 21.

Non-Melanoma Skin Cancer: news from microbiota research.

Squarzanti DF(1)(2), Zavattaro E(3), Pizzimenti S(4), Amoruso A(5), Savoia P(1), 
Azzimonti B(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Sciences (DiSS), University of Piemonte Orientale (UPO), 
Novara, Italy.
(2)Center for Translational Research on Autoimmune and Allergic Diseases (CAAD), 
DiSS, UPO, Novara, Italy.
(3)Department of Translational Medicine (DiMeT), UPO, Novara, Italy.
(4)Department of Clinical and Biological Sciences (DSCB), University of Turin,
Turin, Italy.
(5)Probiotical Research Srl, Novara, Italy.

Recently, research has been deeply focusing on the role of the microbiota in
numerous diseases, either affecting the skin or other organs. What it is well
established is that its dysregulation promotes several cutaneous disorders (i.e. 
psoriasis and atopic dermatitis). To date, little is known about its composition,
mediators and role in the genesis, progression and response to therapy of
Non-Melanoma Skin Cancer (NMSC). Starting from a bibliographic study, we
classified the selected articles into four sections: i) normal skin microbiota;
ii) in vitro study models; iii) microbiota and NMSC and iv) probiotics,
antibiotics and NMSC. What has emerged is how skin microflora changes, mainly
represented by increases of Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes and
Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains, modifications in the mutual quantity of β-Human
papillomavirus genotypes, of Epstein Barr Virus and Malassezia or candidiasis,
may contribute to the induction of a state of chronic self-maintaining
inflammation, leading to cancer. In this context, the role of S. aureus and that 
of specific antimicrobial peptides look to be prominent. Moreover, although
antibiotics may contribute to carcinogenesis, due to their ability to influence
the microbiota balance, specific probiotics, such as Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus
GG, Lactobacillus johnsonii NCC 533 and Bifidobacteria spp., may be protective.

DOI: 10.1080/1040841X.2020.1794792 
PMID: 32692305 

