
1. Mediators Inflamm. 2020 Jul 4;2020:3572809. doi: 10.1155/2020/3572809.
eCollection 2020.

Anti-Inflammatory Effect of a Peptide Derived from the Synbiotics, Fermented
Cudrania tricuspidata with Lactobacillus gasseri, on Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Ha J(1), Oh H(2), Oh NS(3), Seo Y(2), Kang J(2), Park MH(4), Kim KS(4), Kang
SH(4), Yoon Y(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Risk Analysis Research Center, Sookmyung Women's University, Seoul 04310,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Food and Nutrition, Sookmyung Women's University, Seoul 04310,
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Food Science and Biotechnology, Korea University, Sejong 30019, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)R&D Center, Seoul Dairy Cooperative, Ansan 15407, Republic of Korea.

The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of peptides derived from 
synbiotics on improving inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Five-week-old male
C57BL/6 mice were administered with dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) via drinking
water for seven days to induce IBD (IBD group). The mice in the IBD group were
orally administered with PBS (IBD-PBS-positive control), Lactobacillus gasseri
505 (IBD-Pro), fermented powder of CT extract with L. gasseri 505 (IBD-Syn),
β-casein: LSQSKVLPVPQKAVPYPQRDMP (IBD-Pep 1), or α s2-casein:
VYQHQKAMKPWIQPKTKVIPYVRYL (IBD-Pep 2) (both peptides are present in the
synbiotics) for four more days while inducing IBD. To confirm IBD induction, the 
weights of the animals and the disease activity index (DAI) scores were evaluated
once every two days. Following treatment of probiotics, synbiotics, or peptides
for 11 days, the mice were sacrificed. The length of the small and large
intestines was measured. The expression of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-1β,
IL-6, TNF-α, and COX-2 in the large intestine was measured. Large intestine
tissue was fixed in 10% formalin and stained with hematoxylin and eosin for
histopathological analysis. The body weights decreased and DAI scores increased
in the IBD group, but the DAI scores were lower in the IBD-Pep 2 group than those
in the IBD group treated with PBS, Pro, Syn, or Pep 1. The lengths of the small
and large intestines were shorter in the IBD group than in the group without IBD,
and the expression levels of the proinflammatory cytokines were lower (p < 0.05) 
in the IBD-Pep 2 group than those in the IBD-PBS-positive control group. In
addition, histopathological analysis showed that IBD was ameliorated in the Pep
2-treated group. These results indicate that Pep 2 derived from α s2-casein was
effective in alleviating IBD-associated inflammation. Thus, we showed that these 
peptides can alleviate inflammation in IBD.

Copyright © 2020 Jimyeong Ha et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/3572809 
PMCID: PMC7355370
PMID: 32714090 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

