
1. J Biosci Bioeng. 2020 May;129(5):541-551. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2019.11.010. Epub
2019 Dec 9.

Characterisation of the bacterial community structures of sunki, a traditional
unsalted pickle of fermented turnip leaves.

Tomita S(1), Watanabe J(2), Nakamura T(2), Endo A(3), Okada S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Food Research Institute, National Agriculture and Food Research Organization
(NARO), 2-1-12 Kannondai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8642, Japan. Electronic address:
satorutomita@affrc.go.jp.
(2)Food Research Institute, National Agriculture and Food Research Organization
(NARO), 2-1-12 Kannondai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8642, Japan.
(3)Department of Food, Aroma and Cosmetic Chemistry, Tokyo University of
Agriculture, 196 Yasaka, Abashiri, Hokkaido 099-2493, Japan.
(4)Kiso Town Resource Institute, 2326-6 Fukushima, Kisomachi, Kiso, Nagano
397-8588, Japan; Department of Applied Biological Science, Faculty of
Agriculture, Takasaki University of Health and Welfare, 54 Nakaorui, Takasaki,
Gunma 370-0033, Japan.

The bacterial community structure in 29 naturally fermented samples of sunki, an 
unsalted lactic-fermented pickle in Japan, was determined by 16S rRNA
gene-targeted metagenomic analysis. The data revealed that genus Lactobacillus
was dominant in all samples and various bacterial species, related to
Lactobacillus delbrueckii, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus buchneri,
Lactobacillus fermentum, Lactobacillus reuteri, Lactobacillus crispatus,
Lactobacillus intestinalis, and Lactobacillus gasseri, showed a range of
dominance depending on the samples. Comparative analysis of the bacterial
composition by principal coordinate analysis and hierarchical clustering
classified the varied bacterial composition of the 29 samples into three types of
bacterial community structure. These types comprised lactobacilli belonging to
different phylogenetic groups: type A had a certain ratio of
Lactobacillus fermentum (70.3-22.1%, average 41.2%) in combination with several
species belonging to Lactobacillus delbrueckii-phylogenetic group, type B
comprised remarkably high levels of species Lactobacillus delbrueckii (average
89.5%), and type C had combinations of species belonging to
Lactobacillus plantarum- and Lactobacillus buchneri-phylogenetic groups.
Interestingly, these types differed in the compositional profiles of
water-soluble and volatile compounds, and statistically significant differences
were observed in the levels of acetic acid, succinic acid, ethanol, ethyl
acetate, glutamic acid, γ-aminobutyric acid, and isovaleraldehyde. Furthermore,
metabolomic analysis revealed a correlation of Lactobacillus fermentum dominance 
with pH value and lactic and acetic acid levels, with high R values of
0.643, -0.642, and 0.528, respectively. The data reported in this study showed
the characteristics of the bacterial composition in the unsalted sunki pickle and
its potential relationship with the compositional profile.

Copyright © 2019 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier B.V.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2019.11.010 
PMID: 31826833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

