
1. Nutrients. 2020 May 14;12(5). pii: E1426. doi: 10.3390/nu12051426.

Defatted Tenebrio molitor Larva Fermentation Extract Modifies Steatosis,
Inflammation and Intestinal Microflora in Chronic Alcohol-Fed Rats.

Choi RY(1), Ham JR(1), Ryu HS(1), Lee SS(2), Miguel MA(2), Paik MJ(3), Ji M(3),
Park KW(4), Kang KY(4), Lee HI(5), Lee MK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food and Nutrition, Sunchon National University, Suncheon 57922,
Korea.
(2)Department of Animal Science and Technology, Sunchon National University,
Suncheon 57922, Korea.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Sunchon National University, Suncheon 57922, Korea.
(4)Suncheon Research Center for Natural Medicines, Suncheon 57922, Korea.
(5)Mokpo Marin Food-Industry Research Center, Mokpo 58621, Korea.

This study examined the effects of defatted mealworm fermentation extract (MWF)
on alcoholic liver injury in rats. The rats were fed either a Lieber-DeCarli
control (Con) or alcohol liquid diet (EtOH). The alcohol-fed rats were
administered MWF (50, 100, or 200 mg/kg/day) and silymarin (200 mg/kg/day) orally
for eight weeks. MWF prevented alcohol-induced hepatocellular damage by
decreasing their serum aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, and
gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase levels significantly compared to the EtOH group.
MWF effectively reduced the relative hepatic weight, lipid contents, and fat
deposition, along with the down-regulation of transcriptional factors and genes
involved in lipogenesis compared to the EtOH group. It also enhanced the
antioxidant defense system by elevating the glutathione level and glutathione
reductase activity. MWF attenuated the alcohol-induced inflammatory response by
down-regulating hepatic inflammation-associated proteins expression, such as
phosphorylated-inhibitor of nuclear factor-kappa B-alpha and tumor necrosis
factor-alpha, in chronic alcohol-fed rats. Furthermore, sequencing analysis in
the colonic microbiota showed that MWF tended to increase Lactobacillus johnsonii
reduced by chronic alcohol consumption. These findings suggest that MWF can
attenuate alcoholic liver injury by regulating the lipogenic and inflammatory
pathway and antioxidant defense system, as well as by partially altering the
microbial composition.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12051426 
PMCID: PMC7284378
PMID: 32423176 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that there is no
conflict of interest.

