
1. Nature. 2020 Sep;585(7823):102-106. doi: 10.1038/s41586-020-2634-9. Epub 2020 Aug
26.

Gut microorganisms act together to exacerbate inflammation in spinal cords.

Miyauchi E(1), Kim SW(1), Suda W(1), Kawasumi M(1), Onawa S(1), Taguchi-Atarashi 
N(1), Morita H(2), Taylor TD(1), Hattori M(1)(3), Ohno H(4)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical Sciences, Yokohama, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Environmental and Life Science, Okayama University,
Okayama, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Advanced Science and Engineering, Waseda University, Tokyo,
Japan.
(4)RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical Sciences, Yokohama, Japan.
hiroshi.ohno@riken.jp.
(5)Immunobiology Laboratory, Department of Medical Life Science, Graduate School 
of Medical Life Science, Yokohama City University, Yokohama, Japan.
hiroshi.ohno@riken.jp.
(6)Kanagawa Institute of Industrial Science and Technology, Ebina, Japan.
hiroshi.ohno@riken.jp.

Accumulating evidence indicates that gut microorganisms have a pathogenic role in
autoimmune diseases, including in multiple sclerosis1. Studies of experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis (an animal model of multiple sclerosis)2,3, as well 
as human studies4-6, have implicated gut microorganisms in the development or
severity of multiple sclerosis. However, it remains unclear how gut
microorganisms act on the inflammation of extra-intestinal tissues such as the
spinal cord. Here we show that two distinct signals from gut microorganisms
coordinately activate autoreactive T cells in the small intestine that respond
specifically to myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG). After induction of
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in mice, MOG-specific CD4+ T cells are 
observed in the small intestine. Experiments using germ-free mice that were
monocolonized with microorganisms from the small intestine demonstrated that a
newly isolated strain in the family Erysipelotrichaceae acts similarly to an
adjuvant to enhance the responses of T helper 17 cells. Shotgun sequencing of the
contents of the small intestine revealed a strain of Lactobacillus reuteri that
possesses peptides that potentially mimic MOG. Mice that were co-colonized with
these two strains showed experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis symptoms that 
were more severe than those of germ-free or monocolonized mice. These data
suggest that the synergistic effects that result from the presence of these
microorganisms should be considered in the pathogenicity of multiple sclerosis,
and that further study of these microorganisms may lead to preventive strategies 
for this disease.

DOI: 10.1038/s41586-020-2634-9 
PMID: 32848245 

