
1. Front Vet Sci. 2020 Feb 28;7:105. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2020.00105. eCollection
2020.

Effects of in ovo Inoculation of Multi-Strain Lactobacilli on Cytokine Gene
Expression and Antibody-Mediated Immune Responses in Chickens.

Alizadeh M(1), Shojadoost B(1), Astill J(1), Taha-Abdelaziz K(1)(2), Karimi
SH(1), Bavananthasivam J(3), Kulkarni RR(4), Sharif S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathobiology, Ontario Veterinary College, University of Guelph, 
Guelph, ON, Canada.
(2)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Beni-Suef University,
Beni Suef, Egypt.
(3)Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, McMaster Immunology Research
Centre, M. G. DeGroote Institute for Infectious Disease Research, McMaster
University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(4)Department of Population Health and Pathobiology, College of Veterinary
Medicine, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, United States.

This study was conducted to investigate the effects of various doses of a
multi-strain lactobacilli mixture (Lactobacillus salivarius, Lactobacillus
reuteri, Lactobacillus crispatus, and Lactobacillus johnsonii) on the innate and 
adaptive immune responses in broiler chickens. At embryonic day eighteen, 200
eggs were injected with PBS, or three different doses of a multi-strain
lactobacilli mixture (1 × 105, 1 × 106, and 1 × 107 CFU/egg, P1, P2, and P3
respectively) along with a group of negative control. On days 5 and 10
post-hatch, cecal tonsil, bursa of fabricius, and spleen were collected for gene 
expression and cellular analysis. On days 14 and 21 post-hatch, birds were
immunized intramuscularly with both sheep red blood cells (SRBC) and keyhole
limpet hemocyanin (KLH). Serum samples were collected on days 0, 7, 14, and 21
after primary immunization. The results demonstrated that lactobacilli
inoculation increased the splenic expression of cytokines, including interferon
(IFN) - α, IFN-β, IFN-γ, interleukin (IL)-8, and IL-12 on day 5 post-hatch
compared to the control group (PBS). However, in cecal tonsils, lactobacilli
treatment downregulated the expression of IL-6 on day 5 post-hatch and IL-2 and
IL-8 on day 10 post-hatch. No significant differences were observed in the
expression of cytokine genes in the bursa except for IL-13 which was upregulated 
in lactobacilli-treated groups P2 and P3 on days 5 and 10 post-hatch. Flow
cytometry analysis showed that the percentage of KUL01, CD4+ and CD8+ splenocytes
was not affected by treatments. In addition, no significant differences were
observed for antibody titers against SRBC. However, lactobacilli treatment (P1,
P2, and P3) was found to increase IgM titers on day 21 post-primary immunization 
compared to controls. Furthermore, in ovo injection of the highest dose of
probiotics (1 × 107, P3) increased serum IgG titers against KLH on day 7
post-primary immunization. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that that in
ovo administration of lactobacilli can improve antibody-mediated immune responses
and differentially modulate cytokine expression in mucosal and systemic lymphoid 
tissues of chickens.

Copyright © 2020 Alizadeh, Shojadoost, Astill, Taha-Abdelaziz, Karimi,
Bavananthasivam, Kulkarni and Sharif.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2020.00105 
PMCID: PMC7058628
PMID: 32185187 

