
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Feb 26;8(3). pii: E322. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8030322.

The Impact of Direct-Fed Microbials and Phytogenic Feed Additives on Prevalence
and Transfer of Extended-Spectrum Beta-Lactamase Genes in Broiler Chicken.

Saliu EM(1), Ren H(1), Boroojeni FG(1), Zentek J(1), Vahjen W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Animal Nutrition, Freie Universität Berlin, Königin-Luise-Str.
49, 14195 Berlin, Germany.

Poultry frequently account for the highest prevalence of extended-spectrum
beta-lactamase (ESBL)-producing Enterobacteriaceae in livestock. To investigate
the impact of direct-fed microbials (DFM) and phytobiotic feed additives on
prevalence and conjugation of extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL)-producing
Enterobacteriaceae, an animal trial was conducted. Lactobacillus agilis LA73 and 
Lactobacillus salivarius LS1 and two commercial phytogenic feed additives
(consisting of carvacrol, cinnamaldehyde, and eugenol) were used as feed
additives either alone or as a combination of DFM and phytogenic feed additive.
An ESBL-producing E. coli donor and a potentially pathogenic Salmonella
Typhimurium recipient were inoculated at 5 × 109 cells/mL in cecal contents from 
2-week-old broilers. Conjugation frequencies were determined after 4 h aerobic
co-incubation at 37 °C and corrected for the impact of the sample matrix on
bacterial growth of donor and recipient. Surprisingly, indigenous
Enterobacteriaceae acted as recipients instead of the anticipated Salmonella
recipient. The observed increase in conjugation frequency was most obvious in the
groups fed the combinations of DFM and phytogenic product, but merely up to 0.6
log units. Further, cecal samples were examined for ESBL-producing
Enterobacteriaceae on five consecutive days in broilers aged 27-31 days. All
samples derived from animals fed the experimental diet showed lower
ESBL-prevalence than the control. It is concluded that Lactobacillus spp. and
essential oils may help to reduce the prevalence of ESBL-harboring plasmids in
broilers, while the effect on horizontal gene transfer is less obvious.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8030322 
PMCID: PMC7142867
PMID: 32110912 

