
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 Feb 3;86(4). pii: e02193-19. doi:
10.1128/AEM.02193-19. Print 2020 Feb 3.

Lipopolysaccharide Stimulates the Growth of Bacteria That Contribute to Ruminal
Acidosis.

Dai X(1), Hackmann TJ(2), Lobo RR(3), Faciola AP(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida,
USA.
(2)Department of Animal Science, University of California, Davis, Davis,
California, USA.
(3)Department of Animal Science, University of Sao Paulo, Pirassununga, Sao
Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida,
USA afaciola@ufl.edu.

Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) has been reported to contribute to a ruminal acidosis of
cattle by affecting ruminal bacteria. The goal of this study was to determine how
LPS affects the growth of pure cultures of ruminal bacteria, including those that
contribute to ruminal acidosis. We found that dosing LPS (200,000 EU) increased
the maximum specific growth rates of four ruminal bacterial species
(Streptococcus bovis JB1, Succinivibrio dextrinosolvens 24, Lactobacillus ruminis
RF1, and Selenomonas ruminantium HD4). Interestingly, all the species ferment
sugars and produce lactate, contributing to acidosis. Species that consume
lactate or ferment fiber were not affected by LPS. We found that S. bovis JB1
failed to grow in LPS as the carbon source in the media; growth of S. bovis JB1
was increased by LPS when glucose was present. Growth of Megasphaera elsdenii
T81, which consumes lactate, was not different between the detoxified (lipid A
delipidated) and regular LPS. However, the maximum specific growth rate of S.
bovis JB1 was greater in regular LPS than detoxified LPS. Mixed bacteria from a
dual-flow continuous culture system were collected to determine changes of
metabolic capabilities of bacteria by LPS, and genes associated with LPS
biosynthesis were increased by LPS. In summary, LPS was not toxic to bacteria,
and lipid A of LPS stimulated the growth of lactate-producing bacteria. Our
results indicate that LPS not only is increased during acidosis but also may
contribute to ruminal acidosis development by increasing the growth of lactic
acid-producing bacteria.IMPORTANCE Gram-negative bacteria contain
lipopolysaccharide (LPS) coating their thin peptidoglycan cell wall. The presence
of LPS has been suggested to be associated with a metabolic disorder of
cattle-ruminal acidosis-through affecting ruminal bacteria. Ruminal acidosis
could reduce feed intake and milk production and increase the incidence of
diarrhea, milk fat depression, liver abscesses, and laminitis. However, how LPS
affects bacteria associated with ruminal acidosis has not been studied. In this
study, we investigated how LPS affects the growth of ruminal bacteria by pure
cultures, including those that contribute to acidosis, and the functional genes
of ruminal bacteria. Thus, this work serves to further our understanding of the
roles of LPS in the pathogenesis of ruminal acidosis, as well as providing
information that may be useful for the prevention of ruminal acidosis and
reducetion of economic losses for farmers.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02193-19 
PMCID: PMC6997726
PMID: 31811042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

