
1. PLoS One. 2020 Oct 1;15(10):e0239365. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0239365.
eCollection 2020.

Influence of two anti-fungal Lactobacillus fermentum-Saccharomyces cerevisiae
co-cultures on cocoa bean fermentation and final bean quality.

Romanens E(1)(2), Pedan V(3), Meile L(2), Miescher Schwenninger S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Group Food Biotechnology, Institute of Food and Beverage Innovation, 
Zurich University of Applied Sciences (ZHAW), Wädenswil, Switzerland.
(2)Laboratory of Food Biotechnology, Institute of Food, Nutrition and Health, ETH
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Research Group Food Chemistry, Institute of Food and Beverage Innovation,
Zurich University of Applied Sciences (ZHAW), Wädenswil, Switzerland.

The growth of filamentous fungi during the spontaneous cocoa bean fermentation
leads to inferior cocoa bean quality and poses a health risk for consumers due to
the potential accumulation of mycotoxins. We recently developed anti-fungal
cultures with the capacity to inhibit the growth of mycotoxigenic filamentous
fungi on cocoa beans. However, it is not clear how these anti-fungal cultures
affect the fermentation process and cocoa bean quality. For that, the anti-fungal
co-cultures, Lactobacillus fermentum M017-Saccharomyces cerevisiae H290 (A) and
Lb. fermentum 223-S. cerevisiae H290 (B), were applied to 180-kg box
fermentations in Honduras in three time-independent replications each including a
spontaneous control fermentation. The comparison of inoculated and spontaneous
fermentation processes revealed that the co-cultures only marginally affected the
fermentation process and cocoa bean quality. Microorganisms reached maximal
levels of 6.2-7.6 log CFU/g of yeasts and acetic acid bacteria and 7.9-9.5 log
CFU/g of lactic acid bacteria during all fermentations and led to maximal
metabolite concentrations in bean cotyledons of 4-12 mg/g ethanol, 2-6 mg/g
lactic acid and 6-14 mg/g acetic acid. The fermentation and drying processes
resulted in 38-90 mg epicatechin equivalents/g in the cotyledons of dried beans. 
However, the co-cultures led to up to ten times higher mannitol levels in
cotyledons of inoculated beans compared to beans during spontaneous fermentation,
and caused a slower fermentation process, detectable as up to 8-12 °C lower
temperatures in the centre of the fermenting pulp-bean mass and up to 22% lower
proportions of well-fermented beans after drying. Co-culture B-with Lb. fermentum
223 -led to improved cocoa bean quality compared to co-culture A-with Lb.
fermentum M017 -, i.e. cocoa beans with 0.5-1.9 mg/g less acetic acid, 4-17%
higher shares of well-fermented beans and, on a scale from 0 to 10, to 0.2-0.6
units lower astringency, up to 1.1 units lower off-flavours, and 0.2-0.9 units
higher cocoa notes. Therefore, the anti-fungal co-culture B is recommended for
future applications and its capacity to limit fungal growth and mycotoxin
production during industrial-scale cocoa bean fermentation should be investigated
in further studies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0239365 
PMID: 33001998 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

