
1. Food Sci Nutr. 2020 Jun 29;8(8):4491-4504. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.1752. eCollection
2020 Aug.

Developing novel synbiotic low-fat yogurt with fucoxylogalacturonan from
tragacanth gum: Investigation of quality parameters and Lactobacillus casei
survival.

Ghaderi-Ghahfarokhi M(1), Yousefvand A(1), Ahmadi Gavlighi H(2), Zarei M(1),
Farhangnia P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Hygiene Faculty of Veterinary Medicine Shahid Chamran
University of Ahvaz Ahvaz Iran.
(2)Department of Food Science and Technology Faculty of Agriculture Tarbiat
Modares University Tehran Iran.
(3)Research and Development Unit Khuzestan Pegah Dairy Company Shush Iran.

Tragacanth gum (TG) displayed a prebiotic activity, but its application was
restricted due to high viscosity and deterioration of organoleptic and textural
characteristics of food. In this study, TG was depolymerized by Pectinex Ultra
Color enzyme followed by membrane separation (30 kDa) to get pectinase hydrolyzed
fraction of tragacanth gum (PHFTG) with molecular weight more than 30 kDa. The
average molecular weight of PHFTG was 147.7 ± 11.5 g/mol having a
fucoxylogalacturonan structure. The prebiotic activity was tested using PHFTG,
TG, and inulin as a carbon source. The results showed that the count of
Lactobacillus casei in PHFTG- and inulin-supplemented media increased
significantly during the 48-hr fermentation (p < .05). Five batches of low-fat
set yogurts were prepared by the following formulation: Control (without both L. 
casei and prebiotic), LC-Cont (containing L. casei), LC-PHFTG (containing L.
casei + 0.5% PHFTG), LC-TG (containing L. casei + 0.05% TG), and LC-In
(containing L. casei + 0.5% inulin), and L. casei population and physicochemical 
properties were monitored during 21-day storage at 4°C. The number of L. casei
remained highly acceptable (8.54-8.61 log CFU/g) during 7-21 days of storage in
LC-PHFTG. LC-In and LC-PHFTG presented significantly lower syneresis and higher
sensory acceptability than LC-Cont and Control during storage (p < .05). LC-TG
displayed weaker body and texture, lower sensory acceptability, and higher
syneresis than other samples. This study provides support for expanding the
utilization of PHFTG as a potential prebiotic and fat replacer in non- or low-fat
dairy products with satisfactory sensory quality.

© 2020 The Authors. Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.1752 
PMCID: PMC7455973
PMID: 32884729 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts
of interest.

