
1. J Chem Inf Model. 2020 Sep 3. doi: 10.1021/acs.jcim.0c00855. [Epub ahead of
print]

Differential Stability of Aurein 1.2 Pores in Model Membranes of Two Probiotic
Strains.

Balatti GE(1)(2), Domene C(3)(4), Martini MF(5)(6), Pickholz M(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Física Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Universidad
de Buenos Aires, Ciudad Universitaria, Pabellón 1, Buenos Aires 1428, Argentina.
(2)IFIBA, CONICET-UBA, Ciudad Universitaria, Pabellón 1, Buenos Aires 1428,
Argentina.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of Bath, 1 South Bldg., Claverton Down,
Bath BA27AY, The United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3TA, The United
Kingdom.
(5)Facultad de Farmacia y Bioquímica, Departamento de Farmacología, Universidad
de Buenos Aires, Junín 956, C1113AAD Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(6)Instituto de Química y Metabolismo del Fármaco, Fac. de Farmacia y Bioquímica,
(Universidad de Buenos Aires, IQUIMEFA-CONICET), Junín 956, C1113AAD Buenos
Aires, Argentina.

Aurein 1.2 is an antimicrobial peptide from the skin secretion of an Australian
frog. In the previous experimental work, we reported a differential action of
aurein 1.2 on two probiotic strains Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus
(CIDCA 331) and Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. lactis (CIDCA 133). The
differences found were attributed to the bilayer compositions. Cell cultures and 
CIDCA 331-derived liposomes showed higher susceptibility than the ones derived
from the CIDCA 133 strain, leading to content leakage and structural disruption. 
Here, we used molecular dynamics simulations to explore these systems at the
atomistic level. We hypothesize that if the antimicrobial peptides organized
themselves to form a pore, it will be more stable in membranes that emulate the
CIDCA 331 strain than in those of the CIDCA 133 strain. To test this hypothesis, 
we simulated preassembled aurein 1.2 pores embedded into bilayer models that
emulate the two probiotic strains. It was found that the general behavior of the 
systems depends on the composition of the membrane rather than the preassemble
system characteristics. Overall, it was observed that aurein 1.2 pores are more
stable in the CIDCA 331 model membranes. This fact coincides with the high
susceptibility of this strain against antimicrobial peptide. In contrast, in the 
case of the CIDCA 133 model membranes, peptides migrate to the water-lipid
interphase, the pore shrinks, and the transport of water through the pore is
reduced. The tendency of glycolipids to make hydrogen bonds with peptides
destabilizes the pore structures. This feature is observed to a lesser extent in 
CIDCA 331 due to the presence of anionic lipids. Glycolipid transverse diffusion 
(flip-flop) between monolayers occurs in the pore surface region in all the cases
considered. These findings expand our understanding of the antimicrobial peptide 
resistance properties of probiotic strains.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jcim.0c00855 
PMID: 32815723 

