
1. Food Sci Technol Int. 2020 Jul 29:1082013220944661. doi:
10.1177/1082013220944661. [Epub ahead of print]

Effect of inulin-type fructans and galactooligosaccharides on cultures of
Lactobacillus strains isolated in Algeria from camel's milk and human colostrum.

Derriche I(1), Nogacka AM(2)(3), Salazar N(2)(3), Ruas-Madiedo P(2), Gueimonde
M(2)(3), Bensalah F(1), de Los Reyes-Gavilán CG(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Laboratory of Microbial Genetics, Ahmed Ben Bella ORAN 
1 University, Oran, Algeria.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Biochemistry of Dairy Products, Dairy Research 
Institute of Asturias, Spanish Research Council (IPLA-CSIC), Asturias, Spain.
(3)Diet, Microbiota and Health Group, Institute of Health Research of the
Principality of Asturias (ISPA), Asturias, Spain.

Bacteria from the genus Lactobacillus are responsible for spontaneous food
fermentations. Some species, such as Lactobacillus casei and Lactobacillus
brevis, have the "Qualified Presumption of Safety" status recognized by the
European Food Safety Authority. Several of their strains are used as probiotics
in foods and sometimes are included in synbiotic combinations together with
prebiotics. New microbial strains isolated from different sources represent an
opportunity to use them for the production of traditional food products. The
capacity of three selected strains (one isolated from Camel's milk and identified
by partial 16 S rRNA gene sequencing as L. brevis, and two isolated from human
colostrum and identified as L. paracasei/L. casei and L. brevis, respectively)
was assessed in vitro for the ability to survive in gastrointestinal conditions
(low pH and high bile salts concentrations). We also tested the capacity of
growth and the production of organic acids and volatile compounds by
high-performance liquid chromatography and gas chromatography, respectively, when
these bacteria were incubated anaerobically in the presence of inulin,
fructooligosaccharides, or galactooligosaccharides as the main carbon sources.
The strains were able to survive in simulated gastrointestinal conditions and to 
grow in inulin, fructooligosaccharides, and galactooligosaccharides. However,
they displayed different profiles of organic acids and volatile compounds, mainly
depending on the microbial species and the prebiotic used. The influence that the
combined use of strains and different prebiotics could exert on the organic acids
and volatiles formed in food and in the gut should be assessed for each synbiotic
combination and food product.

DOI: 10.1177/1082013220944661 
PMID: 32727210 

