
1. Nutrients. 2020 Sep 28;12(10). pii: E2971. doi: 10.3390/nu12102971.

Lactobacillus reuteri DSM 17938 and Agave Inulin in Children with Cerebral Palsy 
and Chronic Constipation: A Double-Blind Randomized Placebo Controlled Clinical
Trial.

Contreras AAG(1), Garibay EMV(2), Ramírez CAS(3), Fafutis Morris M(2), Delgado
Rizo V(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Nutrición y Bienestar Integral, Escuela de Medicina, Instituto
Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores Monterrey Campus Guadalajara, C.P. 4520
Zapopan, Jalisco, Mexico.
(2)Departamento de Fisiología, Centro Universitario de Ciencias de la Salud,
Universidad de Guadalajara, C.P. 44340 Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico.
(3)Departamento de la Facultad de Medicina, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de 
Colima, C.P. 28040 Colima, Colima, Mexico.

The main objective was to assess the efficacy of a probiotic (Lactobacillus
reuteri DSM 17938), a prebiotic (agave inulin), and a synbiotic on the stool
characteristics in children with cerebral palsy and chronic constipation.
Thirty-seven children with cerebral palsy and chronic constipation were included.
The probiotic group received 1 × 108 colony forming unit (cfu) of L. reuteri DSM 
17938 plus placebo, the prebiotic group received 4 g of agave inulin plus
placebo, the synbiotic group received L. reuteri DSM 17938 plus agave inulin, and
the placebo group received two placebos for 28 days. The probiotic group showed a
significant decrease in stool pH (p = 0.014). Stool consistency improved in the
prebiotic group (p = 0.008). The probiotic, prebiotic, and synbiotic groups
showed a significant improvement in the history of excessive stool retention, the
presence of fecal mass in the rectum, and the history of painful defecation. L.
reuteri concentration in feces was higher in the probiotic group than in the
placebo group (p = 0.001) and showed an inverse correlation with stool pH in the 
probiotic group (r = -0.762, p = 0.028). This study showed that the use of L.
reuteri DSM 17938 and/or agave inulin improved the stool characteristics such as 
the history of painful defecation and the presence of fecal mass in the rectum
against placebo in children with cerebral palsy and chronic constipation.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12102971 
PMID: 32998471 

