
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Sep 29;10(1):15974. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-72161-w.

Safety and functional enrichment of gut microbiome in healthy subjects consuming 
a multi-strain fermented milk product: a randomised controlled trial.

Alvarez AS(1), Tap J(1), Chambaud I(1), Cools-Portier S(1), Quinquis L(1),
Bourlioux P(2), Marteau P(3), Guillemard E(1), Schrezenmeir J(4), Derrien M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Danone Nutricia Research, Palaiseau, France.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy - Paris-Sud University, Chatenay-Malabry, France.
(3)APHP, Sorbonne Université - INSERM-ERL 1157 - UMR7203, Hôpital Tenon, Paris,
France.
(4)Clinical Research Center Kiel, Kiel Innovation and Technology Center,
Schauenburgerstr., Kiel, Germany.
(5)Danone Nutricia Research, Palaiseau, France. muriel.derrien@danone.com.

Many clinical studies have evaluated the effect of probiotics, but only a few
have assessed their dose effects on gut microbiota and host. We conducted a
randomized, double-blind, controlled intervention clinical trial to assess the
safety (primary endpoint) of and gut microbiota response (secondary endpoint) to 
the daily ingestion for 4 weeks of two doses (1 or 3 bottles/day) of a fermented 
milk product (Test) in 96 healthy adults. The Test product is a multi-strain
fermented milk product, combining yogurt strains and probiotic candidate strains 
Lactobacillus paracasei subsp. paracasei CNCM I-1518 and CNCM I-3689 and
Lactobacillus rhamnosus CNCM I-3690. We assessed the safety of the Test product
on the following parameters: adverse events, vital signs, hematological and
metabolic profile, hepatic, kidney or thyroid function, inflammatory markers,
bowel habits and digestive symptoms. We explored the longitudinal gut microbiota 
response to product consumption and dose, by 16S rRNA gene sequencing and
functional contribution by shotgun metagenomics. Safety results did not show any 
significant difference between the Test and Control products whatever the
parameters assessed, at the two doses ingested daily over a 4-week-period.
Probiotic candidate strains were detected only during consumption period, and at 
a significantly higher level for the three strains in subjects who consumed 3
products bottles/day. The global structure of the gut microbiota as assessed by
alpha and beta-diversity, was not altered by consumption of the product for four 
weeks. A zero-inflated beta regression model with random effects (ZIBR)
identified a few bacterial genera with differential responses to test product
consumption dose compared to control. Shotgun metagenomics analysis revealed a
functional contribution to the gut microbiome of probiotic candidates.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-72161-w 
PMCID: PMC7524715
PMID: 32994487 

