
1. Curr Res Food Sci. 2020 Feb 26;3:51-58. doi: 10.1016/j.crfs.2020.02.002.
eCollection 2020 Nov.

Milk fermented with Lactobacillus rhamnosus R0011 induces a regulatory cytokine
profile in LPS-challenged U937 and THP-1 macrophages.

Jeffrey MP(1), Jones Taggart H(1)(2), Strap JL(1)(3), Edun G(3), Green-Johnson
JM(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Applied Bioscience Graduate Program, Ontario Technical University, Oshawa, ON,
Canada.
(2)Faculty of Health Sciences, Ontario Technical University, Oshawa, ON, L1G 0C5,
Canada.
(3)Faculty of Science, Ontario Technical University, Oshawa, ON, L1G 0C5, Canada.

Fermented dairy products have become attractive functional foods for the delivery
of probiotics and their biologically active metabolites. The aim of this study
was to examine the immunomodulatory activity of milk fermented with the probiotic
lactic acid bacterium Lactobacillus rhamnosus R0011 (LrF) on macrophages
challenged with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a potent pro-inflammatory stimulus. To 
this end, human THP-1 or U937 monocytes were differentiated into resting
macrophages then stimulated with LPS and co-incubated with the LrF or with milk
controls. Levels of pro-inflammatory and immunoregulatory cytokines were
determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Culturing of LPS-stimulated
U937 macrophages with either the whole or filtered LrF resulted in an increase in
Interleukin (IL)-1Ra production relative to the negative control. THP-1
macrophages cultured with the LrF demonstrated an increase in LPS-induced IL-10
and IL-1β production, while production of LPS-induced IL-6, sCD54, IL-8, IL-1β,
TNF-α, IL-12p70 and Transforming Growth Factor-β (TGF-β) was unaffected. Further,
the LrF induced the expression of DC-SIGN and CD206, markers of immunoregulatory 
M2 macrophage polarization, in LPS-challenged THP-1 macrophages. Taken together, 
milk fermented with L. rhamnosus R0011 increased regulatory cytokine production
from LPS-challenged U937 and THP-1 macrophages, while simultaneously
up-regulating the production of IL-1β and expression of DC-SIGN and CD206, a
profile characteristic of polarization into the immunoregulatory M2 macrophage
phenotype.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.crfs.2020.02.002 
PMCID: PMC7473351
PMID: 32914120 

Conflict of interest statement: None.

