
1. Poult Sci. 2019 Dec 1;98(12):7050-7062. doi: 10.3382/ps/pez441.

The potential for inoculating Lactobacillus animalis and Enterococcus faecium
alone or in combination using commercial in ovo technology without negatively
impacting hatch and post-hatch performance.

Beck CN(1), McDaniel CD(1), Wamsley KGS(1), Kiess AS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Poultry Science, Mississippi State University, Mississippi State
MS 39762.

The poultry industry has recently undergone transitions into antibiotic free
production, and viable antibiotic alternatives, such as probiotics, are
necessary. Through in ovo probiotic inoculation, beneficial microflora
development in the gastrointestinal tract may occur prior to hatch without
negatively impacting chick performance. Therefore, the objective of the present
study was to observe the impacts of the injection of probiotic bacteria
individually or combined into fertile broiler hatching eggs on hatch and live
performance characteristics. A total of 2,080 fertile broiler hatching eggs were 
obtained from a commercial source. On day 18 of incubation, 4 in ovo injected
treatments were applied: 1.) Marek's Disease (HVT) vaccination, 2.) L. animalis
(∼106 cfu/50μl), 3.) E. faecium (∼106 cfu/50μl), and 4.) L. animalis + E. faecium
(∼106 cfu & ∼106 cfu/50μl each). On day of hatch, hatchability and hatch residue 
data were recorded. A portion of male chicks from each treatment were placed in a
grow-out facility for a 21 d grow-out (18 chicks/pen × 10 pens/treatment = 720
male chicks) with a corn and soy bean meal-based diet without antibiotics or
antibiotic alternatives. Performance data and gastrointestinal samples were
collected on days 0, 7, 14, and 21. Results indicated no differences in all hatch
parameters between treatments (P > 0.05) except for % pipped, where the L.
animalis treatment had lower % pipped eggs compared to the HVT control and E.
faecium treatments (P = 0.04). No differences were observed in body weight gain
or mortality (P > 0.05). Probiotic treatments altered gastrointestinal tissue
length, weight, and pH. This resulted in all in ovo injected probiotic treatments
increasing feed conversion ratio (FCR) from days 7 to 14 as compared to the
control (P = 0.01). Differences in FCR were not observed in any other week of
data collection (days 0 to 7, 14 to 21, or 0 to 21; P > 0.05). Although
probiotics altered live performance from days 7 to 14, these data suggest that in
ovo inoculations of L. animalis and E. faecium in combination are viable
probiotic administration practices that potentially improve hatch characteristics
and gastrointestinal tract development.

© 2019 Poultry Science Association Inc.

DOI: 10.3382/ps/pez441 
PMID: 31420659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

