
1. Biology (Basel). 2020 Aug 31;9(9). pii: E256. doi: 10.3390/biology9090256.

The Prospective Beneficial Effects of Red Laser Exposure on Lactocaseibacillus
casei Fermentation of Skim Milk.

Mohamed MSM(1), Elshaghabee FMF(2), Alharbi SA(3), El-Hussein A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Cairo University,
Giza 12613, Egypt.
(2)Dairy Science Department, Faculty of Agriculture, Cairo University, Giza
12613, Egypt.
(3)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Science, King Saud
University, P.O Box 2455, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(4)The National Institute of Laser Enhanced Science, Cairo University, Giza
12613, Egypt.

Probiotic lactic acid bacteria are crucial producers of fermented dairy products 
that are popular functional foods in many countries. The health benefits of
probiotic bacteria are mainly attributed to their effective bioactive
metabolites. The quality of fermented milk is mainly dependent on the bacterial
strain used in the fermentation process. In this study, an innovative technique
is used in order to enhance the activities of the probiotic bacteria, quality of 
fermented milk, and consequently the whole fermentation process. Red laser
dosages, at the wavelength of 632.7 nm, were applied to the type strain
Lacticaseibacillus casei NRRL-B-1922 before the fermentation of skim milk. The
results revealed that the scavenging of 2,2-diphenyl-1-picryl-hydrazyl-hydrate
(DPPH) radical and total antioxidant capacity were significantly increased from
21% in untreated control to 56% after bacterial laser irradiation of 12 J/cm2
dosage for 40 min. The antioxidant activity was found to be increased as the red 
laser dosage increased in a dose-response relationship. Additionally, the lactose
fermentation in skim milk medium of 43.22 mg/mL initial concentration into
organic acids was enhanced after L. casei irradiation and recorded 23.15 mg/mL
compared to control group 28.35 mg/mL without bacterial pre-treatment. These
results are correlated with increase of the Î²-Galactosidase activity, where the
L. casei that has been exposed to 40 min of red laser exhibited the higher
activity of a 0.37 unit/mL relative to the control 0.25 unit/mL. The assessment
of this fermented milk after L. casei laser exposure for 10, 20, and 40 min
indicates multiple biological effects, including assimilation of cholesterol as
well as proteolytic and antibacterial activity. Our data on the exposure of L.
casei to laser beam suggest promising application of red laser in the
fermentation process of skim milk.

DOI: 10.3390/biology9090256 
PMID: 32878056 

