
1. PLoS One. 2020 Sep 24;15(9):e0239392. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0239392.
eCollection 2020.

Fermented yellow mombin juice using Lactobacillus acidophilus NRRL B-4495:
Chemical composition, bioactive properties and survival in simulated
gastrointestinal conditions.

Ribeiro ESS(1), Damasceno KSFSC(1)(2), Dantas LMDC(3), Azevedo WM(3), Leite
PIP(3), Assis CF(1)(3), Sousa Junior FC(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition Graduate Program, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
RN, Brazil.
(2)Department of Nutrition, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal-RN, 
Brazil.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal-RN,
Brazil.

The purpose of the present study was to evaluate yellow mombin (Spondias mombin
L.) juice as a vehicle for the Lactobacillus acidophilus NRRL B-4495 probiotic.
The initial pH and fermentation temperature conditions were optimized by central 
composite rotational design. The beverage was evaluated for its chemical
composition, bioactive properties, microbiological stability, survival in
simulated gastrointestinal conditions and sensory analysis. The ideal conditions 
for probiotic juice production were an initial pH of 6.4 and 16 h of
fermentation, with maximum viability of 12.9 ± 0.4 Log CFU/mL. The fermented
juice showed a total phenolic concentration of 94.90 ± 7.12 GAE/mL and
antioxidant activity, as measured by DPPH (0.31 ± 0.00 μmol TE/mL) and ABTS
sequestration (2.59 ± 0.30 μmol TE/mL). Antibacterial activity could also be
observed against S. aureus, E. coli and K. pneumoniae. The obtained formulation
showed good microbiological stability when stored at 4ºC for 28 days. In
addition, there was no significant change in viability after exposure to
simulated gastrointestinal conditions. The sensory analysis showed that the
probiotic beverage was not well accepted. However, the Just-About-Right (JAR)
ideal scale test enabled identifying the specific attributes which need to be
improved from the tasters' point of view so that it is possible to improve
product acceptance.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0239392 
PMCID: PMC7514086
PMID: 32970721 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

