
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Apr 24;11:597. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00597. eCollection
2020.

Lactobacillus murinus Improved the Bioavailability of Orally Administered
Glycyrrhizic Acid in Rats.

Yuan T(1), Wang J(1)(2), Chen L(2), Shan J(3), Di L(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China.
(2)Jiangsu Engineering Research Centre for Efficient Delivery System of TCM,
School of Pharmacy, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China.
(3)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Pediatric Respiratory Disease, Nanjing University of
Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China.

Intestinal microbiota has been extensively studied in the context of host health 
benefit, and it has recently become clear that the gut microbiota influences drug
pharmacokinetics and correspondingly efficacy. Intestinal microbiota dysbiosis is
closely related with liver cirrhosis, especially the depletion of Lactobacillus. 
Therefore, the bioavailability of orally administered glycyrrhizic acid (GL) was 
speculated to be influenced under a pathological state. In the present study, L. 
murinus was isolated and screened for GL bioconversion capacity in vitro.
Compared with Lactobacillus rhamnosus and Lactobacillus acidophilus, L. murinus
was chosen for further investigation because it has the highest biotransformation
rate. Our results showed that L. murinus could significantly improve the
translocation of GL on Caco-2 cell models. Meanwhile, L. murinus was observed to 
have the ability to bind with the surface of Caco-2 cells and prominently
downregulate the transporter gene expression level of multidrug resistance gene 1
(MDR1) and multidrug resistance protein 2 (MRP2), which were involved in the
efflux of drugs. Furthermore, L. murinus was selected to be orally administred
into rats in healthy and liver cirrhosis groups by a daily gavage protocol. Our
data highlighted that supplements of L. murinus significantly improved the
bioavailability of orally administered GL in rats, especially under a
pathological condition, which may provide a novel strategy for improving the
clinical therapeutic effect of liver protective drugs.

Copyright Â© 2020 Yuan, Wang, Chen, Shan and Di.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00597 
PMCID: PMC7193032
PMID: 32390962 

