
1. Soft Matter. 2020 Sep 15. doi: 10.1039/d0sm00292e. [Epub ahead of print]

Shaving and breaking bacterial chains with a viscous flow.

Gomand F(1), Mitchell WH(2), Burgain J(3), Petit J(3), Borges F(3), Spagnolie
SE(4), Gaiani C(3).

Author information: 
(1)LIBio - Université de Lorraine, 2 avenue de la Forêt de Haye, 54500
Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy, France. faustine.gomand@gmail.fr
claire.gaiani@univ-lorraine.fr and Department of Mathematics, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, 480 Lincoln Dr., Madison, WI 53706, USA.
spagnolie@math.wisc.edu.
(2)Department of Mathematics, Statistics, and Computer Science, Macalester
College, 1600 Grand Ave, St. Paul, MN 55105, USA. wmitchel@macalester.edu.
(3)LIBio - Université de Lorraine, 2 avenue de la Forêt de Haye, 54500
Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy, France. faustine.gomand@gmail.fr
claire.gaiani@univ-lorraine.fr.
(4)Department of Mathematics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 480 Lincoln Dr.,
Madison, WI 53706, USA. spagnolie@math.wisc.edu.

Some food and ferment manufacturing steps such as spray-drying result in the
application of viscous stresses to bacteria. This study explores how a viscous
flow impacts both bacterial adhesion functionality and bacterial cell
organization using a combined experimental and modeling approach. As a model
organism we study Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG) "wild type" (WT), known to
feature strong adhesive affinities towards beta-lactoglobulin thanks to pili
produced by the bacteria on cell surfaces, along with three cell-surface mutant
strains. Applying repeated flows with high shear-rates reduces bacterial adhesive
abilities up to 20% for LGG WT. Bacterial chains are also broken by this process,
into 2-cell chains at low industrial shear rates, and into single cells at very
high shear rates. To rationalize the experimental observations we study
numerically and analytically the Stokes equations describing viscous fluid flow
around a chain of elastically connected spheroidal cell bodies. In this model
setting we examine qualitatively the relationship between surface traction (force
per unit area), a proxy for pili removal rate, and bacterial chain length (number
of cells). Longer chains result in higher maximal surface tractions, particularly
at the chain extremities, while inner cells enjoy a small protection from surface
tractions due to hydrodynamic interactions with their neighbors. Chain rupture
therefore may act as a mechanism to preserve surface adhesive functionality in
bacteria.

DOI: 10.1039/d0sm00292e 
PMID: 32930313 

