
1. Vet Res Forum. 2020 Spring;11(2):121-126. doi: 10.30466/vrf.2018.90418.2188. Epub
2020 Jun 15.

Some probiotic properties of Lactobacillus species isolated from honey and their 
antimicrobial activity against foodborne pathogens.

Lashani E(1), Davoodabadi A(2), Soltan Dallal MM(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathobiology, School of Public Health, Tehran University of
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Babol University of Medical
Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(3)Food Microbiology Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran.

Lactobacilli commonly used as a probiotic and they can be isolated from various
sources such as fermented foods and gastrointestinal tracts of humans and
animals. The aims of this study were isolation and identification of lactobacilli
from honey and investigation of some probiotic properties and antimicrobial
effects against foodborne bacterial pathogens. A total of 88 honey samples were
collected from different areas in Iran. About 1.00 g of each honey was cultured
in de Man, Rogosa, and Sharpe (MRS) broth and then sub-cultured on MRS agar. The 
isolates were assessed for probiotic potentials such as tolerance to acid and
bile. Then, antimicrobial activity of isolates against seven foodborne pathogens 
including Listeria monocytogenes, Shigella flexneri, Staphylococcus aureus,
Salmonella enteritidis, Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli, Escherichia coli O157 
H7 and Bacillus cereus was investigated. From 88 honey samples, 39 isolates were 
identified by 16S rDNA gene sequencing method. Fructophilic lactic acid bacteria 
(FLAB) with 29 (74.00%) isolates were dominant identified bacteria (27 L. kunkeei
and two Fructobacillus fructosus). Also, four L. plantarum, two L. paracasei, one
L. brevis, one L. rhamnosus, one L. casei and one L. fermentum were identified.
Two L. kunkeei isolates and one F. fructosus isolate were
resistant to acid and bile salt. Two L. rhamnosus isolates and one L. paracasei
isolate inhibited all pathogens (100%). This is the first study in Iran that
isolated lactobacilli from honey. The FLAB especially L. kunkeei were isolated as
dominated species from honey. Some lactobacilli isolates have probiotic potential
and may be useful for the prevention and treatment of infections, but more
investigations are needed.

© 2020 Urmia University. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.30466/vrf.2018.90418.2188 
PMCID: PMC7413009
PMID: 32782740 

