
1. Front Microbiol. 2019 Nov 5;10:2468. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02468. eCollection
2019.

First Report of Coexistence of Three Different MDR Plasmids, and That of
Occurrence of IMP-Encoding Plasmid in Leclercia adecarboxylata.

Yin Z(1), Hu L(1), Cheng Q(2), Jiang X(1), Xu Y(2), Yang W(1), Yang H(1), Zhao
Y(1), Gao B(1), Wang J(1), Dai E(2), Zhou D(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity, Beijing Institute of
Microbiology and Epidemiology, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The Fifth Hospital of Shijiazhuang, Hebei
Medical University, Shijiazhuang, China.

Three different MDR plasmids p16005813A, p16005813B, and p16005813C, which
carried a total of 18 non-redundant resistance genes or gene loci, were
identified in a single clinical isolate of Leclercia adecarboxylata. The
p16005813A backbone showed very low levels of identity to all DNA sequences
available in public databases and carried a repA gene that could not assigned
into any of known incompatibility groups. The IncFII-family p16005813B and
pECAZ161_KPC had essentially identical backbones. p16005813C belonged to an IncR 
single-replicon plasmid. p16005813A, p16005813B, and p16005813C harbored three
different novel MDR regions as their sole accessory modules. The MDR region of
p16005813B manifested as Tn6505, which was generated from insertion of bla
IMP-8-carrying In655 instead of In4 into the Tn1696 backbone. Other key
antibiotic resistance elements included Tn2, IS26-mph(A)-mrx-mphR(A)-IS6100 unit,
chrA region, In27, and aacC2-tmrB region in the MDR region of p16005813A, and
ΔTn9 carrying catA1, In609, and IS26-tetA(C)-tetR(C)-IS26 unit in the MDR region 
of p16005813C. This was the first report of coexistence of three different MDR
plasmids, and that of occurrence of IMP-encoding plasmid and bla IMP-8 gene in L.
adecarboxylata.

Copyright © 2019 Yin, Hu, Cheng, Jiang, Xu, Yang, Yang, Zhao, Gao, Wang, Dai and 
Zhou.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02468 
PMCID: PMC6848029
PMID: 31749779 

