
1. World J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2019 Oct 31;35(11):172. doi:
10.1007/s11274-019-2752-4.

Co-existence of Leclercia adecarboxylata (LSE-1) and Bradyrhizobium sp. (LSBR-3) 
in nodule niche for multifaceted effects and profitability in soybean production.

Kumawat KC(1), Sharma P(2), Singh I(3), Sirari A(2), Gill BS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, 141004, 
India. kailash-cobsmb@pau.edu.
(2)Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, Punjab Agricultural University,
Ludhiana, 141004, India.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, 141004, 
India.

The present study was designed with the objective of improving growth and
nodulation of soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merill] with co-inoculation of native
Bradyrhizobium sp. (LSBR-3) (KF906140) and non-rhizobial nodule endophytic
diazotroph Leclercia adecarboxylata (LSE-1) (KX925974) with multifunctional plant
growth promoting (PGP) traits in cereal based cropping system (Rice-Wheat). A
total of 40 endophytic bacteria from cultivated and wild sp. of soybean were
screened for multifarious PGP traits and pathogenicity test. Based on PGP traits,
antagonistic activities and bio-safety test; L. adecarboxylata (LSE-1) was
identified with 16 S rRNA gene sequencing along with the presence of nifH
(nitrogen fixation) and ipdc (IAA production) genes. Dual inoculant LSE-1 and
LSBR-3 increased indole acetic acid (IAA), P & Zn-solubilization,
1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate deaminase (ACCD) activity, siderophore, biofilm
formation and exo-polysaccharides in contrast to single inoculation treatment.
Further, assessment of dual inoculant LSBR-3 + LSE-1 improved growth parameters, 
nodulation, soil enzymes activities, nutrient accumulation and yield as compared 
to single as well as un-inoculated control treatment under field conditions.
Single inoculant LSBR-3 improved yield by 8.84% over control. Further,
enhancement of 4.15% grain yield was noticed with LSBR-3 + LSE-1 over LSBR-3
alone treatment. Application of LSBR-3 + LSE-1 gave superior B:C ratio (1.29) and
additional income approximately 116 USD ha-1 in contrast to control treatment.
The present results thus, is the first report of novel endophytic diazotroph L.
adecarboxylata (LSE-1) as PGPR from Indian conditions particularly in Punjab
region for exploiting as potential PGPR along with Bradyrhizobium sp. (LSBR-3) in
soybean.

DOI: 10.1007/s11274-019-2752-4 
PMID: 31673798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

