
1. BMJ Case Rep. 2020 Sep 29;13(9). pii: e235633. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2020-235633.

Leclercia adecarboxylata causing necrotising soft tissue infection in an
immunocompetent adult.

Lonneman MK(1), Devasahayam RJ(2), Phillips CJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences F
Edward Hebert School of Medicine, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(2)General Surgery, Madigan Army Medical Center, Tacoma, Washington, USA.
(3)General Surgery, Madigan Army Medical Center, Tacoma, Washington, USA
cjphillips10@gmail.com.

A 72-year-old woman presented with concern for a necrotising soft tissue
infection (NSTI) 6 days after a tree branch impaled her left lower extremity
while hiking in Hawaii. The wound was irrigated and closed at a local clinic in
Hawaii. She completed a 5-day course of clindamycin. She presented to our
emergency department 1 day after completion of antibiotics due to worsening
erythema and malodorous drainage. Local wound exploration revealed bullae and
easy dissection of fascial planes. CT scan revealed complex heterogeneous fluid
and inflammatory stranding in the posterior calf. Clinical and radiographic
findings raised concern for NSTI prompting initiation of broad spectrum
antibiotics and urgent operative debridement. Wound cultures and deep tissues
cultures returned positive for pansusceptible Leclercia adecarboxylata She
underwent two additional operative debridements and transitioned to negative
pressure wound therapy during her hospitalisation. She was discharged home on
oral amoxicillin/clavulanate on hospital day 6.

© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2020. No commercial re-use. See rights and
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2020-235633 
PMID: 32994267 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.

