
1. PLoS One. 2020 Apr 6;15(4):e0230615. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0230615.
eCollection 2020.

ACC-deaminase producing plant growth promoting rhizobacteria and biochar mitigate
adverse effects of drought stress on maize growth.

Danish S(1), Zafar-Ul-Hye M(1), Mohsin F(2), Hussain M(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Soil Science, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Biology, Government College for Women Chungi, Multan, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Agronomy, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan, Pakistan.
(4)Agriculture Discipline, College of Science Health, Engineering and Education, 
Murdoch University, Murdoch, Australia.

Availability of good quality irrigation water is a big challenge in arid and semi
arid regions of the world. Drought stress results in poor plant growth and low
yield; however, the rhizobacteria, capable of producing
1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC)-deaminase are likely to improve crop
growth and productivity under drought stress. Similarly, biochar could also
ameliorate the negative impacts of drought stress. Therefore, this pot experiment
was conducted to evaluate the role of ACC-deaminase producing plant growth
promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) alone and in combinations with timber-waste
biochar in improving maize growth under drought stress. The ACC-deaminase
producing rhizobacteria, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterobacter cloacae,
Achromobacter xylosoxidans and Leclercia adecarboxylata were studied along with
two rates (0.75 and 1.50% of the soil weight) of biochar under three moisture
levels i.e., normal moisture, mild drought stress and severe drought stress. The 
E. cloacae in conjunction with higher rate of biochar produced a significant
improvement i.e., up to 60, 73, 43, 69, 76 and 42% respectively, in grain yield
plant-1, photosynthetic rate, stomatal conductance, chlorophyll a, total
chlorophyll and carotenoids contents of maize as compared to the control under
mild drought stress. Similarly, A. xylosoxidans with higher rate of biochar also 
enhanced grain yield plant-1, photosynthetic rate, stomatal conductance,
chlorophyll a, total chlorophyll and carotenoids contents of maize up to 200,
213, 113, 152, 148 and 284%, respectively over control under severe drought
stress. In conclusion, combination of ACC-deaminase containing PGPR, A.
xylosoxidans and biochar (0.75%) proved an effective technique to improve maize
growth and productivity under drought stress.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0230615 
PMCID: PMC7135286
PMID: 32251430  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

