
1. Folia Microbiol (Praha). 2020 Aug 28. doi: 10.1007/s12223-020-00816-2. [Epub
ahead of print]

RamA, a transcriptional regulator conferring florfenicol resistance in Leclercia 
adecarboxylata R25.

Cheng C(1), Ying Y(2), Zhou D(3), Zhu L(1), Lu J(2), Li A(4), Bao Q(2), Zhu M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Vocational and Technical College, Lishui University, Lishui, 323000, China.
(2)Medical Research Center, Taizhou Hospital of Zhejiang Province, Taizhou,
317000, Zhejiang, China.
(3)School of Laboratory Medicine and Life Sciences/Institute of Biomedical
Informatics, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 325035, Zhejiang, China.
(4)The Fifth Affiliated Hospital, Wenzhou Medical University, Lishui, 323000,
Zhejiang, China.
(5)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Zhejiang Hospital, Hangzhou, 310013,
Zhejiang, China. zhumei_d@163.com.

Due to the inappropriate use of florfenicol in agricultural practice, florfenicol
resistance has become increasingly serious. In this work, we studied the novel
florfenicol resistance mechanism of an animal-derived Leclercia adecarboxylata
strain R25 with high-level florfenicol resistance. A random genomic DNA library
was constructed to screen the novel florfenicol resistance gene. Gene cloning,
gene knockout, and complementation combined with the minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) detection were conducted to determine the function of the
resistance-related gene. Sequencing and bioinformatics methods were applied to
analyze the structure of the resistance gene-related sequences. Finally, we
obtained a regulatory gene of an RND (resistance-nodulation-cell division)
system, ramA, that confers resistance to florfenicol and other antibiotics. The
ramA-deleted variant (LA-R25ΔramA) decreased the level of resistance against
florfenicol and several other antibiotics, while a ramA-complemented strain
(pUCP24-prom-ramA/LA-R25ΔramA) restored the drug resistance. The whole-genome
sequencing revealed that there were five RND efflux pump genes (mdtABC, acrAB,
acrD, acrEF, and acrAB-like) encoded over the chromosome, and ramA located
upstream of the acrAB-like genes. The results of this work suggest that ramA
confers resistance to florfenicol and other structurally unrelated antibiotics,
presumably by regulating the RND efflux pump genes in L. adecarboxylata R25.

DOI: 10.1007/s12223-020-00816-2 
PMID: 32857336 

