
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Jun 1;10(1):8832. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-65759-7.

Species-dependent protoplast enlargement involves different types of vacuole
generation in bacteria.

Takahashi S(1), Mizuma M(2), Kami S(2), Nishida H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center and Department of Biotechnology, Toyama Prefectural
University, 5180 Kurokawa, Imizu, Toyama, 939-0398, Japan.
t876002@st.pu-toyama.ac.jp.
(2)Research Center and Department of Biotechnology, Toyama Prefectural
University, 5180 Kurokawa, Imizu, Toyama, 939-0398, Japan.
(3)Research Center and Department of Biotechnology, Toyama Prefectural
University, 5180 Kurokawa, Imizu, Toyama, 939-0398, Japan.
hnishida@pu-toyama.ac.jp.

Vacuole generation occurs frequently during the enlargement of bacterial
protoplasts and spheroplasts. Gram-positive Enterococcus faecalis protoplasts and
gram-negative Lelliottia amnigena spheroplasts had large and small vacuoles
inside the cytoplasm, respectively. Although no vacuoles were found at the early 
stage of cell enlargement, all enlarged cells used in the microinjection
procedures had vacuoles. The plasma membrane of L. amnigena was more flexible
than that of E. faecalis. In addition, E. faecalis protoplasts had unique
discoidal structures as well as spherical structures in the cytoplasm. Our
findings showed that the number of vacuoles increased as the L. amnigena plasma
membrane expanded and that the size of vacuoles increased as the E. faecalis
plasma membrane expanded, suggesting that bacterial cell enlargement involved
vacuole generation. Thus, biosynthesis of the plasma and vacuolar membranes was
synchronous with the bacterial cell enlargement. Differences in the plasma
membrane flexibility might influence the different types of vacuole generation.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-65759-7 
PMCID: PMC7264237
PMID: 32483175 

