
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Oct 4. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-02049-w. [Epub ahead of
print]

Bacterial microbiota on digestive structure of Cybister lateralimarginalis
torquatus (Fischer von Waldheim, 1829) (Dytiscidae: Coleoptera).

Bektaş M(1), Orhan F(2), Erman ÖK(3), Barış Ö(3).

Author information: 
(1)Hınıs Vocational Training High School, Ataturk University, Erzurum, Turkey.
mbektash25@gmail.com.
(2)Health Services Vocational Training School Erzurum, Ataturk University,
Erzurum, Turkey.
(3)Biology Department, Science Faculty, Ataturk University, Erzurum, Turkey.

In the List of World Edible Insects, Cybister sp. (Dytiscidae) genus of species
is known to be consumed by humans. Dried Cybister lateralimarginalis torquatus
(Fischer von Waldheim, 1829) which has been collected in Turkey long before and
compared to other edible insects having large body, belonging to the Dytiscidae
family from the aquatic beetle fauna was aimed to determine microbiota (in
digestive structure) of the insect species. In this study, Lelliottia amnigena
(Enterobacter amnigenus) (male insect) and Citrobacter freundii (female insect)
bacteria species were detected from insect digestion structures. Finally, the DNA
sequences of the obtained bacteria were matched from the Gene Bank with the
accessory numbers. Moreover, levels of some heavy elements (Al, Cr, Fe, Co, Ni,
Cu, Zn, As, Se, Cd, Hg, Pb) were evaluated in this study to observe whether
Dytiscidae (Coleoptera) is a useful candidate for biomonitoring studies. The
result of the study analyzes agricultural, ecological and health research,
influence on the microbial flora and the effect of environment would be and how
big the problem we would face in our future. Calculated analysis of the results
will give a positive impetus and the fighting method to destroy it in the source.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-02049-w 
PMID: 33011828 

