
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2019 Oct 11;9:347. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2019.00347.
eCollection 2019.

Species-Level Salivary Microbial Indicators of Well-Resolved Periodontitis: A
Preliminary Investigation.

Acharya A(1)(2), Chen T(3)(4), Chan Y(1), Watt RM(1), Jin L(1), Mattheos N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(2)Dr. D. Y. Patil Dental College and Hospital, Dr. D. Y. Patil Vidyapeeth, Pune,
India.
(3)Department of Microbiology, The Forsyth Institute, Cambridge, MA, United
States.
(4)Department of Oral Medicine, Infection & Immunity, Harvard School of Dental
Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States.

Objective: To profile the salivary microbiomes of a Hong Kong Chinese cohort at a
species-level resolution and determine species that discriminated clinically
resolved periodontitis from periodontally healthy cases. Methods: Salivary
microbiomes of 35 Hong Kong Chinese subjects' under routine supportive dental
care were analyzed. All subjects had been treated for any dental caries or
periodontal disease with all restorative treatment completed at least 1 year ago 
and had ≤3 residual pockets. They were categorized based on a past diagnosis of
chronic periodontitis into "healthy" (H) or "periodontitis" (P) categories.
Unstimulated whole saliva was collected, genomic DNA was isolated, and high
throughput Illumina MiSeq sequencing of 16S rRNA (V3-V4) gene amplicons was
performed. The sequences were assigned taxonomy at the species level by using a
BLASTN based algorithm that used a combined reference database of HOMD
RefSeqV14.51, HOMD RefSeqExtended V1.1 and GreenGeneGold. Species-level OTUs were
subjected to downstream analysis in QIIME and R. For P and H group comparisons,
community diversity measures were compared, differentially abundant species were 
determined using DESeq2, and disease indicator species were determined using
multi-level pattern analysis within the R package "indicspecies." Results: P
subjects were significantly older than H subjects (p = 0.003) but not
significantly different in their BOP scores (p = 0.82). No significant
differences were noted in alpha diversity measures after adjusting for age,
gender, and BOP or in the beta diversity estimates. Four species; Treponema sp.
oral taxon 237, TM7 sp. Oral Taxon A56, Prevotella sp. oral taxon 314, Prevotella
sp. oral taxon 304, and Capnocytophaga leadbetteri were significantly more
abundant in P than in the H group. Indicator species analysis showed 7
significant indicators species of P group. Fusobacterium sp oral taxon 370 was
the sole positive indicator of P group (positive predictive value = 0.9, p =
0.04). Significant indicators of the H category were Leptotrichia buccalis,
Corynebacterium matruchotii, Leptotrichia hofstadii, and Streptococcus
intermedius. Conclusion: This exploratory study showed salivary microbial species
could discriminate treated, well-maintained chronic periodontitis from healthy
controls with similar gingival inflammation levels. The findings suggest that
certain salivary microbiome features may identify periodontitis-susceptible
individuals despite clinical disease resolution.

Copyright © 2019 Acharya, Chen, Chan, Watt, Jin and Mattheos.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2019.00347 
PMCID: PMC6797555
PMID: 31681625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

