
1. Microbiol Immunol. 2020 Feb;64(2):133-142. doi: 10.1111/1348-0421.12752. Epub
2019 Nov 15.

Amelioration of colitis in mice by Leuconostoc lactis EJ-1 by M1 to M2 macrophage
polarization.

Jang SE(1), Min SW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food and Nutrition, Eulji University, Seongnam, Gyeonggi-do,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Life Science Lab, SG Medical, Songpa-gu, Republic of Korea.

Dysregulation of immune responses to environmental antigens by the intestine
leads to the chronic inflammatory disease, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
Recent studies have thus sought to identify a dietary component that can inhibit 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced nuclear factor-kappa beta (NF-κB) signaling to
ameliorate IBD. This study assessed if the lactic acid bacteria (LAB) from
kimchi, suppresses the expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) in
peritoneal macrophages induced by LPS. Leuconostoc lactis EJ-1, an isolate from
LAB, reduced the expression of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and IL-1β in peritoneal
macrophages induced by LPS. The study further tested whether EJ-1 alleviates
colitis induced by 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS) in mice. TNBS
significantly increased myeloperoxidase (MPO) expression, macroscopic colitis
scores, and colon shortening. Oral administration of L. lactis EJ-1 resulted in
an inhibited in TNBS-induced loss in body weight, colon shortening, MPO activity,
and NF-κB and inducible nitric oxide synthase expression; it also led to a marked
reduction in cyclooxygenase-2 expression. L. lactis EJ-1 also inhibited the
TNBS-induced expression of TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6; however, it induced the
expression of IL-10. The M2 macrophage markers arginase I, IL-10, and CD206 were 
elevated by EJ-1. Collectively, these results suggest that EJ-1 inhibits the
NF-κB signaling and polarizes M1- to M2-macrophage transition, which help in
ameliorating colitis.

© 2019 The Societies and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1348-0421.12752 
PMID: 31625616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

