
1. J Agric Food Chem. 2020 Jun 17;68(24):6664-6671. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.0c01465.
Epub 2020 Jun 8.

Development of Slowly Digestible Starch Derived α-Glucans with
4,6-α-Glucanotransferase and Branching Sucrase Enzymes.

Te Poele EM(1)(2), Corwin SG(3), Hamaker BR(3), Lamothe LM(4), Vafiadi C(4),
Dijkhuizen L(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Microbial Physiology, Groningen Biomolecular Sciences and Biotechnology
Institute (GBB), University of Groningen, Nijenborgh 7, 9747AG Groningen, The
Netherlands.
(2)CarbExplore Research BV, Zernikepark 12, 9747AN Groningen, The Netherlands.
(3)Whistler Center for Carbohydrate Research, Department of Food Science, Purdue 
University, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907, United States.
(4)Nestlé Research, Vers-Chez-Les-Blanc, 1000 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Previously, we have identified and characterized 4,6-α-glucanotransferase enzymes
of the glycosyl hydrolase (GH) family 70 (GH70) that cleave (α1→4)-linkages in
amylose and introduce (α1→6)-linkages in linear chains. The
4,6-α-glucanotransferase of Lactobacillus reuteri 121, for instance, converts
amylose into an isomalto/malto-polysaccharide (IMMP) with 90% (α1→6)-linkages.
Over the years, also, branching sucrase enzymes belonging to GH70 have been
characterized. These enzymes use sucrose as a donor substrate to glucosylate
dextran as an acceptor substrate, introducing single -(1→2,6)-α-d-Glcp-(1→6)-
(Leuconostoc citreum enzyme) or -(1→3,6)-α-d-Glcp-(1→6)-branches (Leuconostoc
citreum, Leuconostoc fallax, Lactobacillus kunkeei enzymes). In this work, we
observed that the catalytic domain 2 of the L. kunkeei branching sucrase used not
only dextran but also IMMP as the acceptor substrate, introducing
-(1→3,6)-α-d-Glcp-(1→6)-branches. The products obtained have been structurally
characterized in detail, revealing the addition of single (α1→3)-linked glucose
units to IMMP (resulting in a comb-like structure). The in vitro digestibility of
the various α-glucans was estimated with the glucose generation rate (GGR) assay 
that uses rat intestinal acetone powder to simulate the digestive enzymes in the 
upper intestine. Raw wheat starch is known to be a slowly digestible carbohydrate
in mammals and was used as a benchmark control. Compared to raw wheat starch,
IMMP and dextran showed reduced digestibility, with partially digestible and
indigestible portions. Interestingly, the digestibility of the branching sucrase 
modified IMMP and dextran products considerably decreased with increasing
percentages of (α1→3)-linkages present. The treatment of amylose with
4,6-α-glucanotransferase and branching sucrase/sucrose thus allowed for the
synthesis of amylose/starch derived α-glucans with markedly reduced
digestibility. These starch derived α-glucans may find applications in the food
industry.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.0c01465 
PMCID: PMC7304062
PMID: 32437608 

