
1. World J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Apr 20;36(5):64. doi:
10.1007/s11274-020-02832-3.

Dynamics and species diversity of lactic acid bacteria involved in the
spontaneous fermentation of various palm tree saps during palm wine tapping in
Côte d'Ivoire.

Kouamé HK(1), Aké MDF(2), Assohoun NMC(3), Djè MK(1), Djéni NT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Biotechnologie et Microbiologie des Aliments, Unité de
Formation et de Recherche en Sciences et Technologie des Aliments (UFR-STA),
Université Nangui Abrogoua, 02 BP 801, Abidjan 02, Côte d'Ivoire.
(2)Laboratoire de Biotechnologie et Microbiologie des Aliments, Unité de
Formation et de Recherche en Sciences et Technologie des Aliments (UFR-STA),
Université Nangui Abrogoua, 02 BP 801, Abidjan 02, Côte d'Ivoire.
akefrancine2000@yahoo.fr.
(3)Unité de Formation et de Recherche en Agroforesterie, Université Jean
Lorougnon Guédé de Daloa, BP 150, Daloa, Côte d'Ivoire.

To document and speed up research on the usefulness and selection of potential
health-promoting bacterial starter cultures from unexplored fermented saps of
various palm species in Côte d'Ivoire, benchmark tapping processes were
successfully developed and implemented at field level. Therefore, spontaneously
fermented saps of three palm species (Elaeis guineensis, Raphia hookeri, Borassus
aethiopum) were collected throughout tapping process and lactic acid bacteria
(LAB) diversity and dynamics were studied through a multiphasic approach. Overall
microbiological analysis revealed a LAB species diversity throughout tapping
process. LAB isolates belonged to two main (GTG)5-PCR clusters, namely
Fructobacillus durionis (40.33%) and Leuconostoc mesenteroides (45.66%), with
Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides, Lactobacillus paracasei, Lactobacillus fermentum
Weissella cibaria, Enterococcus casseliflavus and Lactococcus lactis occurring
occasionally. LAB diversity was higher in fermented saps from E. guineensis (8
species) than those of R. hookeri (5 species) and B. aethiopum (3 species).
Dynamic study revealed that F. durionis and L. mesenteroides dominated the
fermentations from the beginning until the end of tapping process in all palm
wine types. But the earlier stages of the process were also populated by some
species like W. cibaria, L. pseudomesenteroides and L. fermentum, which
population decreased or disappeared after some days. Also, species of
Enterococcus and Lactococcus genera were sporadically detected uniquely in sap
from E. guineensis. This study is the first to investigate extensively the LAB
diversity and dynamics throughout palm trees tapping process in Côte d'Ivoire and
is relevant for future selection of health promoting bacteria.

DOI: 10.1007/s11274-020-02832-3 
PMID: 32314089 

