
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Apr 30;8(5). pii: E656. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8050656.

Products of Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus Strain F17 and
Leuconostoc lactis Strain H52 Are Biopreservatives for Improving Postharvest
Quality of 'Red Globe' Grapes.

Fang X(1), Duan Q(2), Wang Z(1), Li F(1), Du J(2), Ke W(2), Liu D(1), Beier
RC(3), Guo X(2), Zhang Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Public Health, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Grassland and Agro-Ecosystems, School of Life
Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China.
(3)United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service,
Southern Plains Agricultural Research Center, Food and Feed Safety Research Unit,
College Station, TX 77845-4988, USA.

'Red Globe' table grapes are large, edible, seeded fruit with firm flesh that
tastes good, but can have poor postharvest shelf-life. This study was conducted
to explore the effects of products of Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus
strain F17 and Leuconostoc lactis strain H52 on 'Red Globe' table grapes for the 
enhancement of shelf-life and improvement of grape quality characteristics during
postharvest storage. Strains F17 and H52 were isolated from traditional fermented
yak milk obtained in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. Samples from untreated and
treated grapes were analyzed for physicochemical, biochemical, and
microbiological properties (weight loss, decay rate, pH, total soluble solids
content, titratable acidity, total phenols, sensory evaluation, and microbial
growth) for 20 days. The results demonstrated that supernatants from both strains
significantly reduced weight loss, decay rate, aerobic mesophilic bacteria, and
coliform bacteria counts; delayed maturity and senescence of table grapes; and
reduced titratable acidity and total phenols. However, the supernatant of strain 
F17 was more effective and resulted in better sensory evaluations and had a
significant inhibitory effect on yeast and molds by day 5. Meanwhile, the
supernatant from strain H52 had a significant inhibitory effect on fungi over the
whole storage period. In addition, the results of the Pearson correlation
analysis suggested that weight loss, decay rate, total soluble solids content,
and microorganisms were highly correlated with the sensory evaluation data and
quality of postharvest grapes when treated with the products of strain F17. On
the basis of these data and sensory organoleptic qualities, the supernatant
containing products from strain F17 had the best potential as a biopreservative
to improve the postharvest quality of 'Red Globe' table grapes.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8050656 
PMCID: PMC7285285
PMID: 32365911 

