
1. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2020 Sep 29. pii: S0006-291X(20)31857-X. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.09.105. [Epub ahead of print]

Production of electricity and reduction of high-fat diet-induced IL-6 by glucose 
fermentation of Leuconostoc mesenteroides.

Yang JJ(1), Rahim AR(2), Yang AJ(2), Chuang TH(3), Huang CM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences, National Central University, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Engineering, National Central
University, Taiwan.
(3)Immunology Research Center, National Health Research Institutes, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Engineering, National Central
University, Taiwan. Electronic address: chunming@ncu.edu.tw.

Electrogenic bacteria can mediate electron transfer to conserve energy and
promote growth. To examine bacterial electrogenicity, an L. mesenteroides EH-1
strain was cultured in rich media in the presence and absence of 2% glucose.
After 12 h incubation, glucose triggered fermentation of L. mesenteroides EH-1 to
produce >10 mmol/l acetate and elicit electricity measured by voltage changes.
The electricity production was mediated by glucose fermentation since
pre-treatment of L. mesenteroides EH-1 with furfural, a fermentation inhibitor,
completely diminished the voltage increases. The deficiency of furfural
pre-treated L. mesenteroides EH-1 in electricity production can be restored by
the external addition of acetate into the bacterial culture, suggesting the
function of acetate as an electron donor. Oral administration of HFD-fed mice
with L. mesenteroides EH-1 in the presence or absence of glucose significantly
attenuated the high level of pro-inflammatory IL-6 cytokine in blood. Bacterial
electricity can be elicited by fermentation. Supplementation of fermenting and
electrogenic L. mesenteroides EH-1 may provide a novel approach for the reduction
of pro-inflammatory IL-6 cytokine that increased in chronic inflammation,
autoimmune diseases, cancers, and infections.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.09.105 
PMID: 33008603 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

