
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Mar;70(3):1585-1590. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003938.

Leuconostoc litchii sp. nov., a novel lactic acid bacterium isolated from lychee.

Chen YS(1), Wang LT(2), Wu YC(2), Mori K(3), Tamura T(3), Chang CH(4), Chang
YC(1), Wu HC(1), Yi HH(1), Wang PY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Ming Chuan University, No. 5, De-Ming Rd.,
Guishan Dist., Taoyuan City 333, Taiwan, ROC.
(2)Bioresource Collection and Research Center (BCRC), Food Industry Research and 
Development Institute, 331 Shih-Pin Rd., Hsinchu 30062, Taiwan, ROC.
(3)Biological Resource Center (NBRC), National Institute of Technology and
Evaluation (NITE), 2-5-8 Kazusakamatari, Kisarazu, Chiba 292-0818, Japan.
(4)Department of Animal Science, National Chung Hsing University, 250 Kuo Kuang
Road, Taichung 402, Taiwan, ROC.

A novel lactic acid bacterium, strain MB7T, was isolated from lychee in Taiwan.
MB7T is Gram-staining-positive, catalase-negative, non-motile, non-haemolytic,
facultatively anaerobic, coccoid-shaped, heterofermentative and mainly produces
d-lactic acid from glucose. Comparative analysis of 16S rRNA, pheS and rpoA gene 
sequences has demonstrated that the novel strain represented a member of the
genus Leuconostoc. 16S rRNA gene sequencing results indicated that MB7T had the
same sequence similarity of 99.25 % to four type strains of members of the genus 
Leuconostoc: Leuconostoc mesenteroides subsp. dextranicum DSM 20484T, Leuconostoc
mesenteroides subsp. jonggajibkimchii DRC 1506T, Leuconostoc mesenteroides subsp.
mesenteroides ATCC 8293T and Leuconostoc suionicum DSM 20241T. Additionally, high
16S rRNA sequence similarities were also observed with Leuconostoc mesenteroides 
subsp. cremoris ATCC 19254T (99.12 %) and Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides NRIC
1777T (98.69 %). When comparing the genomes of these type strains, the average
nucleotide identity values and digital DNA-DNA hybridization values of MB7T with 
these type strains were 76.57-80.53 and 22.0-22.6â€Š%, respectively. MB7T also
showed different phenotypic characteristics to other most closely related species
of the genus Leuconostoc, such as carbohydrate metabolizing ability,
halotolerance and growth at various pHs. On the basis of phenotypic and genotypic
properties, strain MB7T represents a novel species belonging to the genus
Leuconostoc, for which the name Leuconostoc litchii sp. nov. is proposed. The
type strain is MB7T (=BCRC 81077T=NBRC 113542T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003938 
PMID: 32228772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

