
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Sep;90:103491. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103491. Epub 2020 Apr 
1.

Selection of non-Lactobacillus strains to be used as starters for sourdough
fermentation.

Montemurro M(1), Celano G(1), De Angelis M(1), Gobbetti M(2), Rizzello CG(1),
Pontonio E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Soil, Plant and Food Science, University of Bari Aldo Moro,
Bari, Italy.
(2)Faculty of Science and Technology, Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, 39100,
Bolzano, Italy.
(3)Department of Soil, Plant and Food Science, University of Bari Aldo Moro,
Bari, Italy. Electronic address: erica.pontonio@uniba.it.

The suitability of forty-one non-Lactobacillus strains to be used as selected
starters for sourdough fermentation was evaluated. According to the data
collected, Pediococcus pentosaceus OA1 and S3N3 and Leuconostoc citreum PRO17
were selected based on the optimal acidification and growth performances and the 
intense proteolytic activity (increase of TFFA up to 80%) on whole wheat flour
doughs. A relevant degradation of phytic acid (up to 58%) and the increase of
phenols content and scavenging activity (4- and 2-folds, respectively) were also 
observed. The technological performances were compared to two representative
Lactobacillus strains (Lactobacillus plantarum and Lactobacillus
sanfranciscensis). The investigation of the robustness of the selected strains
during the propagation (back-slopping procedure) showed their long-term dominance
only when singly-inoculated; while Leuc. citreum PRO17 dominated the fermentation
when the strains were co-inoculated. The sourdoughs obtained by the
non-Lactobacillus selected strains (singly or pooled) were used for breadmaking. 
Selected sourdoughs allowed the production of breads characterized by in-vitro
protein digestibility (IVPD) higher than that of breads obtained with
Lactobacillus strains or baker's yeast. The aroma profile, estimated by GC/MS,
was complex and characterized by high concentration of the typical compounds
(hexanol, 3-methylbutanol and 2-pentylfuran) of sourdough bread.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103491 
PMID: 32336362 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.

