
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Jan 1;142:73-84. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2019.09.071.
Epub 2019 Sep 13.

Optimization and characterization of exopolysaccharides with a highly branched
structure extracted from Leuconostoc citreum B-2.

Wang Y(1), Du R(1), Qiao X(1), Zhao B(1), Zhou Z(2), Han Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin
300072, PR China.
(2)School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin
300072, PR China. Electronic address: zzj@tju.edu.cn.
(3)School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin
300072, PR China. Electronic address: hanye@tju.edu.cn.

The fermentation conditions for exopolysaccharides (EPS) with a highly branched
structure extracted from Leuconostoc citreum B-2 were optimized by response
surface methodology (RSM). The results showed that under the optimal fermentation
conditions of sucrose, yeast extract and pH of 99.80 g/L, 5.94 g/L and 6.12,
respectively, the B-2 EPS yield was 59.33 ± 1.34 g/L, which was 5.93 times
greater than that from the initial nonoptimized conditions. Chemical composition 
analysis showed that the carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen and sulfur contents of the
B-2 pure EPS (P-EPS) were 39.05 ± 0.25%, 7.19 ± 0.08%, 0.72 ± 0.03% and 0%,
respectively. The content of uronic acid was high, reaching 20.94 ± 6.30%. B-2
EPS had certain 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), hydroxyl (·OH), superoxide 
anion (O2-), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), nitroso radical (NO2-) scavenging
abilities and reducing power. The degradation temperature of the B-2 EPS was
313 °C, indicating that B-2 EPS have high thermal stability. The emulsification
effect on vegetable oils was better than that of hydrocarbons. The EPS produced
by Leu. citreum B-2 was activated in different concentrations of
sucrose-supplemented skimmed milk, which caused the skimmed milk to have
different degrees of solidification. Moreover, B-2 EPS promoted the growth of
probiotic bacteria, especially Lactobacillus delbrueckii.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2019.09.071 
PMID: 31525416  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

