
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Aug 20;8(9). pii: E1257. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091257.

Papaya Fruit Pulp and Resulting Lactic Fermented Pulp Exert Antiviral Activity
against Zika Virus.

Haddad JG(1), Carcauzon V(1), El Kalamouni O(1), Desprès P(1), Garcia C(2),
Remize F(2), El Kalamouni C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unité Mixte Processus Infectieux en Milieu Insulaire Tropical, INSERM U1187,
CNRS UMR 9192, IRD UMR 249, Université de la Réunion, Plateforme Technologique
CYROI, 94791 Sainte Clotilde, La Réunion, France.
(2)UMR QualiSud, Université de La Réunion, CIRAD, Université Montpellier,
Montpellier SupAgro, Université d'Avignon, ESIROI, 2 rue J. Wetzell, Parc
Technologique Universitaire, 97490 Sainte Clotilde, France.

There are a several emerging and re-emerging RNA viruses that are prevalent
around the world for which there are no licensed vaccines or antiviral drugs.
Zika virus (ZIKV) is an example of an emerging virus that has become a
significant concern worldwide because of its association with severe congenital
malformations and neurological disorders in adults. Several polyphenol-rich
extracts from plants were used as nutraceuticals which exhibit potent in vitro
antiviral effects. Here, we demonstrated that the papaya pulp extracted from
Carica papaya fruit inhibits the infection of ZIKV in human cells without loss of
cell viability. At the non-cytotoxic concentrations, papaya pulp extract has the 
ability to reduce the virus progeny production in ZIKV-infected human cells by at
least 4-log, regardless of viral strains tested. Time-of-drug-addition assays
revealed that papaya pulp extract interfered with the attachment of viral
particles to the host cells. With a view of preserving the properties of papaya
pulp over time, lactic fermentation based on the use of bacterial strains
Weissella cibaria 64, Lactobacillus plantarum 75 and Leuconostoc
pseudomesenteroides 56 was performed and the resulting fermented papaya pulp
samples were tested on ZIKV. We found that lactic fermentation of papaya pulp
causes a moderate loss of antiviral activity against ZIKV in a bacterial
strain-dependent manner. Whereas IC50 of the papaya pulp extract was 0.3 mg/mL,
we found that fermentation resulted in IC50 up to 4 mg/mL. We can conclude that
papaya pulp possesses antiviral activity against ZIKV and the fermentation
process has a moderate effect on the antiviral effect.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091257 
PMID: 32825246 

