
1. Food Res Int. 2019 Dec;126:108583. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2019.108583. Epub 2019 
Jul 25.

Sugar reduction in bakery products: Current strategies and sourdough technology
as a potential novel approach.

Sahin AW(1), Zannini E(1), Coffey A(2), Arendt EK(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Food and Nutritional Sciences, University College Cork, Ireland.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Cork Institute of Technology, Ireland.
(3)School of Food and Nutritional Sciences and APC Microbiome Ireland, University
College Cork, Ireland. Electronic address: e.arendt@ucc.ie.

The world is facing a big problem of non-communicable diseases, such as obesity, 
cardiovascular disease and diabetes. An excessive sugar consumption is considered
as a main factor, which triggers these diseases. The two main sources of sugar in
processed products on the market are sugar-sweetened beverages and sweet bakery
products. Sugar reduction is challenging, especially in baked goods, since it
interacts significantly with all ingredients. These interactions cause an
increase in gelatinization temperature, a delay in gluten network development, an
increase or decrease in yeast activity depending on the sugar concentration, as
well as an enhancement of emulsification. Reflecting the molecular interactions
on the product quality characteristics of different types of baked goods, sugar
also contributes to browning reactions and extension of microbial shelf life.
During cake preparation, sugar supports the batter aeration which results in the 
typical soft cake crumb. Furthermore, it contributes to the spreading process of 
biscuits during baking and enhances surface cracking due to recrystallization.
Sugar reduction requires the development of different strategies; Two well-known 
strategies are the replacement of added sugar by the combination of bulking
agents and high-intensive sweeteners, or by sweet bulking ingredients, such as
polyols. The in-situ production of polyols to enhance sweetness, and
exopolysaccharides to improve texture, in a sourdough system shows high potential
as sugar replacement. Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis, Leuconostoc mesenteroides
and Leuconostoc citreum are high mannitol producing lactic acid bacteria (LAB)
strains with yields of 70-98% and Leuconostoc oenos was found to produce
erythritol. Furthermore, the yeast strain Candida milleri isolated from sourdough
produces xylitol in the presence of xylose. Exopolysaccharides produced by LAB
and/or yeasts are known to improve the texture and structure of bakery products
and, thus, have high potential as natural functional ingredients to compensate
quality loss in sweet bakery goods.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2019.108583 
PMID: 31732069 

