
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Sep 22. doi: 10.1007/s00253-020-10906-3. [Epub
ahead of print]

Construction of lactic acid-tolerant Saccharomyces cerevisiae by using
CRISPR-Cas-mediated genome evolution for efficient D-lactic acid production.

Mitsui R(1), Yamada R(2), Matsumoto T(1), Yoshihara S(3), Tokumoto H(3), Ogino
H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Osaka Prefecture University, 1-1
Gakuen-cho, Naka-ku, Sakai, Osaka, 599-8531, Japan.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Osaka Prefecture University, 1-1
Gakuen-cho, Naka-ku, Sakai, Osaka, 599-8531, Japan.
yamada@chemeng.osakafu-u.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Osaka Prefecture University, 1-1
Gakuen-cho, Naka-ku, Sakai, Osaka, 599-8531, Japan.

Lactic acid (LA) is chemically synthesized or fermentatively produced using
glucose as substrate, mainly using lactic acid bacteria. Polylactic acid is used 
as a biodegradable bioplastic for packaging materials, medical materials, and
filaments for 3D printers. In this study, we aimed to construct a LA-tolerant
yeast to reduce the neutralization cost in LA production. The pHLA2-51 strain was
obtained through a previously developed genome evolution strategy, and
transcriptome analysis revealed the gene expression profile of the mutant yeast. 
Furthermore, the expression of the genes associated with glycolysis and the LA
synthesis pathway in the LA-tolerant yeast was comprehensively and randomly
modified to construct a D-LA-producing, LA-tolerant yeast. In detail, DNA
fragments expressing thirteen genes, HXT7, HXK2, PGI1, PFK1, PFK2, FBA1, TPI1,
TDH3, PGK1, GPM1, ENO2, and PYK2, and D-lactate dehydrogenase (D-LDH) from
Leuconostoc mesenteroides were randomly integrated into the genomic DNA in the
LA-tolerant yeast. The resultant engineered yeast produced about 33.9 g/L of D-LA
from 100 g/L glucose without neutralizing agents in a non-neutralized condition
and 52.2 g/L of D-LA from 100 g/L glucose with 20 g/L CaCO3 in a semi-neutralized
condition. Our research provides valuable insights into non-neutralized
fermentative production of LA. KEY POINTS: • Lactic acid (LA) tolerance of yeast 
was improved by genome evolution. • The transcription levels of 751 genes were
changed under LA stress. • Rapid LA production with semi-neutralization was
achieved by modifying glycolysis. • A versatile yeast strain construction method 
based on the CRISPR system was proposed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10906-3 
PMID: 32960291 

