
1. J Biol Chem. 2020 Jul 10;295(28):9474-9489. doi: 10.1074/jbc.RA120.013028. Epub
2020 May 14.

A specific oligosaccharide-binding site in the alternansucrase catalytic domain
mediates alternan elongation.

Molina M(1), Moulis C(1), Monties N(1), Guieysse D(1), Morel S(1), Cioci G(2),
Remaud-Siméon M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Toulouse Biotechnology Institute (TBI), Université de Toulouse, CNRS, INRAE,
INSA, Toulouse, France.
(2)Toulouse Biotechnology Institute (TBI), Université de Toulouse, CNRS, INRAE,
INSA, Toulouse, France remaud@insa-toulouse.fr cioci@insa-toulouse.fr.

Microbial α-glucans produced by GH70 (glycoside hydrolase family 70)
glucansucrases are gaining importance because of the mild conditions for their
synthesis from sucrose, their biodegradability, and their current and anticipated
applications that largely depend on their molar mass. Focusing on the
alternansucrase (ASR) from Leuconostoc citreum NRRL B-1355, a well-known
glucansucrase catalyzing the synthesis of both high- and low-molar-mass
alternans, we searched for structural traits in ASR that could be involved in the
control of alternan elongation. The resolution of five crystal structures of a
truncated ASR version (ASRΔ2) in complex with different gluco-oligosaccharides
pinpointed key residues in binding sites located in the A and V domains of ASR.
Biochemical characterization of three single mutants and three double mutants
targeting the sugar-binding pockets identified in domain V revealed an
involvement of this domain in alternan binding and elongation. More strikingly,
we found an oligosaccharide-binding site at the surface of domain A, distant from
the catalytic site and not previously identified in other glucansucrases. We
named this site surface-binding site (SBS) A1. Among the residues lining the
SBS-A1 site, two (Gln700 and Tyr717) promoted alternan elongation. Their
substitution to alanine decreased high-molar-mass alternan yield by a third,
without significantly impacting enzyme stability or specificity. We propose that 
the SBS-A1 site is unique to alternansucrase and appears to be designed to bind
alternating structures, acting as a mediator between the catalytic site and the
sugar-binding pockets of domain V and contributing to a processive elongation of 
alternan chains.

© 2020 Molina et al.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.RA120.013028 
PMCID: PMC7363119 [Available on 2021-07-10]
PMID: 32409580 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest—The authors declare that
they have no conflicts of interest with the contents of this article.

