
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Sep 15;159:630-639. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.05.101. Epub 2020 May 18.

Optimization production of exopolysaccharide from Leuconostoc lactis L2 and its
partial characterization.

Jiang J(1), Guo S(1), Ping W(1), Zhao D(2), Ge J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Engineering Research Center of Agricultural Microbiology Technology, Ministry 
of Education, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150500, PR China; Laboratory of Microbiology, 
College of Life Science, Heilongjiang University, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150080, PR
China.
(2)Engineering Research Center of Agricultural Microbiology Technology, Ministry 
of Education, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150500, PR China; Laboratory of Microbiology, 
College of Life Science, Heilongjiang University, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150080, PR
China. Electronic address: zhaodan4u@163.com.
(3)Engineering Research Center of Agricultural Microbiology Technology, Ministry 
of Education, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150500, PR China; Laboratory of Microbiology, 
College of Life Science, Heilongjiang University, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150080, PR
China. Electronic address: gejingping126@126.com.

The response surface methodology (RSM) was used to obtain a 7.6-fold increase of 
exopolysaccharide (EPS) 58.1 ± 0.4 g/L produced by Leuconostoc lactis L2 under
the condition of sucrose 91.2 g/L, pH 5.8 and NaAc 1.2 g/L. The L2 EPS consisted 
of 81.2 ± 0.2% total sugar, 13.3 ± 0.4% uronic acid, 0.1 ± 0.01% protein and
0.4 ± 0.01% sulfate. As for chain conformation, congo red test testified the
existence of random coil structure. Circular dichroism (CD) revealed that L2 EPS 
concentration closely related to its hydrogen-bond interactions and chirality.
The L2 EPS exhibited moderate scavenging activities and reducing power. It had
high viscosity at high concentration, low temperature and acidic to slight
alkalic pH (4.0 to 8.0). The high degradation temperature (290.3 °C) implied the 
high thermal stability of L2 EPS. With the concentration increase (0 to
1.0 mg/mL), the absolute value of zeta potential and particle size of L2 EPS
continually raised. The L2 exhibited a degree of hydrophilicity resulting from
water contact angle test. Moreover, L2 EPS showed high efficiency in milk
solidification. These results collectively conferred L2 EPS a promising
commercial application as a safe food additive and antioxidant.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.05.101 
PMID: 32439434 

