
1. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2020 Aug 25;36(8):1546-1555. doi:
10.13345/j.cjb.190498.

[Characterization of a sucrose phosphorylase from Leuconostoc mesenterides for
the synthesis of α-arbutin].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Li X(1)(2), Xia Y(1)(2), Shen W(1)(2), Yang H(1)(2), Cao Y(1)(2), Chen X(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, Wuxi
214122, Jiangsu, China.

Sucrose phosphorylase (SPase) gene from Leuconostoc mesenteroides ATCC 12291 was 
synthesised after codon optimization, and inserted into pET-28a plasmid to
generate pET-28a-spase. The recombinant strain Escherichia coli BL21
(DE3)/pET-28a-spase was induced for Spase expression. The recombinant protein
Spase was purified and characterized. The specific enzyme activity of SPase was
213.98 U/mg, the purification ratio was 1.47-fold, and the enzyme activity
recovery rate was 87.80%. The optimal temperature and the optimal pH of the SPase
were identified to be 45 °C and 6.5 respectively, and Km, Vmax and kcat of the
SPase for sucrose was 128.8 mmol/L, 2.167 μmol/(mL·min), and 39 237.86 min-1. The
recombinant SPase was used for α-arbutin production from hydroquinone and the
reaction process was evaluated. The optimal conditions for synthesis of α-arbutin
by SPase were 40 g/L hydroquinone, 5:1 molar ratio of sucrose and hydroquinone,
and 250 U/mL recombinant SPase at pH 7.0 and 30 °C for 24 h in the dark, and then
500 U/mL glucoamylase was added at 40°C for 2.5 h. Under the optimized process,
the yield of α-arbutin reached 98 g/L, and the hydroquinone conversion rate was
close to 99%. In summary, the recombinant SPase was cloned and characterized, and
its application for α-arbutin production was feasible.

Publisher: 将来源于肠膜明串珠菌Leuconostoc mesenteroides ATCC 12291 的蔗糖磷酸化酶 (Sucrose
phosphorylase, SPase) 基因进行密码子优化后将其插入到pET-28a
中构建表达载体pET-28a-spase，诱导大肠杆菌Escherichia coli BL21(DE3)/pET-28a-spase 表达制得SPase
粗酶液，将重组SPase 纯化后进行酶学表征。结果表明，重组SPase 的比酶活为213.98 U/mg，纯化倍数为1.47
倍，酶活回收率达87.80%。该酶最适温度为45 ℃，最适pH 为6.5，该酶对蔗糖的Km 为128.8 mmol/L，Vmax 为2.167
μmol/(mL·min)，kcat 为39 237.86 min-1，利用重组SPase 催化氢醌合成α-熊果苷，最优条件为：氢醌添加量为40
g/L，蔗糖/氢醌的摩尔比为5:1，重组SPase 250 U/mL。在25 mmol/L的吗啉乙磺酸 (MES) 缓冲液 (pH 7.0) 中，反应温度30
℃，避光反应24 h 后终止反应，再用500 U/mL 的糖化酶40 ℃处理2.5 h。α-熊果苷产量达98
g/L，氢醌的转化率接近99%。综上所述，文中克隆并研究了重组SPase，并建立了其在α-熊果苷生产中的应用。.
DOI: 10.13345/j.cjb.190498 
PMID: 32924353 

