
1. Insects. 2020 Jul 25;11(8). pii: E471. doi: 10.3390/insects11080471.

The Gram-Positive Bacterium Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides Shows Insecticidal
Activity against Drosophilid and Aphid Pests.

Hiebert N(1), Kessel T(2), Skaljac M(1), Spohn M(1), Vilcinskas A(1)(2), Lee
KZ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Fraunhofer Institute for Molecular Biology and Applied Ecology, Ohlebergsweg
12, D-35394 Giessen, Germany.
(2)Institute for Insect Biotechnology, Justus-Liebig University of Giessen,
Heinrich-Buff-Ring 26, D-35392 Giessen, Germany.

Insect pests reduce global crop yields by up to 20%, but the most effective
control measures are currently based on environmentally hazardous chemical
pesticides. An alternative, ecologically beneficial pest-management strategy
involves the use of microbial pathogens (or active compounds and extracts derived
from them) that naturally target selected insect pests. A novel strain of the
bacterium Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides showed promising activity in our
preliminary tests. Here, we investigated its effects in more detail, focusing on 
drosophilid and aphid pests by testing the survival of two species representing
the family Drosophilidae (Drosophila suzukii and D. melanogaster) and one
representing the family Aphididae (Acyrthosiphon pisum). We used oral and septic 
infection models to administer living bacteria or cell-free extracts to adult
flies and aphid nymphs. We found that infection with living bacteria
significantly reduced the survival of our insect models, whereas the
administration of cell-free extracts had a significant effect only in aphids.
These results confirm that L. pseudomesenteroides has potential as a new
biocontrol agent for sustainable pest management.

DOI: 10.3390/insects11080471 
PMCID: PMC7469177
PMID: 32722463 

