
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Oct;91:103536. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103536. Epub 2020 Apr 
28.

Contribution of Leuconostocaceae to CO2-mediated bloater defect in cucumber
fermentation.

Zhai Y(1), Pérez-Díaz IM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food, Bioprocessing and Nutrition Sciences, North Carolina State
University, 322 Schaub Hall, Box 7624, Raleigh, NC 27695-7624, USA.
(2)U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, SAA Food
Science Research Unit, 322 Schaub Hall, Box 7624, North Carolina State
University, Raleigh, NC 27695-7624, USA. Electronic address:
ilenys.perez-diaz@usda.gov.

Fermented cucumber bloater defect, caused by the accumulation of
microbiologically produced carbon dioxide (CO2), creates significant economic
losses for the pickling industry. The ability of Leuconostocaceae, indigenous to 
cucumber, to grow and produce CO2 during a fermentation and cause bloater defect 
was evaluated. Leuconostocaceae grew and produced over 40% CO2 in cucumber juice 
medium, used as a model for cucumber fermentation. The inoculation of
Leuconostocaceae to 5 Log CFU/g in cucumber fermentations brined with 25 mM
calcium chloride and 6 mM potassium sorbate resulted in no significant
differences in bloater defect, colony counts from MRS and VRBG agar plates or the
fermentation biochemistry; suggesting an inability of the inoculated bacterial
species to prevail in the bioconversion. Acidified cucumbers were subjected to a 
fermentation inoculated with a Leuconostoc lactis starter culture after raising
the pH to 5.9 ± 0.4. CO2 was produced in the acidified cucumber fermentations to 
13.6 ± 3.5% yielding a bloater index of 21.3 ± 6.4; while 8.6 ± 0.8% CO2 and a
bloater index of 5.2 ± 5.9 were observed in the non-inoculated control jars.
Together the data collected demonstrate that Leuconostocaceae can produce enough 
CO2 to contribute to bloater defect, if not outcompeted by the leading lactic
acid bacteria in a cucumber fermentation.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103536 
PMID: 32539962 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest There is no
conflict of interest.

