
1. Food Funct. 2020 Aug 1;11(8):6855-6865. doi: 10.1039/d0fo01009j. Epub 2020 Jul
15.

Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides improves microbiota dysbiosis and liver
metabolism imbalance and ameliorates the correlation between dihydroceramide and 
strains of Firmicutes and Proteobacteria in high fat diet obese mice.

Sun M (1), Wang Q , Zhang M , Zhang G , Wu T , Liu R , Sui W , Zhang J , Yin J , 
Zhang M .

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Nutrition and Safety, Tianjin University of
Science & Technology, Tianjin 300457, China. zm0102@sina.com wutaoxx@gmail.com
yinjinjin@tust.edu.cn.

Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides is widely isolated from fermented foods; however,
the underlying molecular mechanism behind its anti-obesity function has rarely
been studied. This study aims to explore the role of alterations in gut microbes 
and liver metabolites mediated by Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides (Tu) in obese
mice for a period of 8 weeks through UPLC/Q-TOF-MS and 16S rRNA sequencing. Our
results showed that Tu administration at a dosage of 1 Ã— 109 CFU per day per
mouse effectively attenuated the weight of mice, significantly reduced serum
lipids, and markedly improved fecal lipid output. Tu also ameliorated the lipid
profiles in the liver and epididymal fat tissues, and restored intestinal
disorder caused by a high-fat diet. Moreover, glycerophospholipid metabolism in
the liver was altered by increased dihydroceramide levels. Surprisingly, the
correlation between dihydroceramide and strains of Firmicutes and Proteobacteria 
was found for the first time. Collectively, these findings highlight that Tu
could be a potential dietary supplement for weight control.

DOI: 10.1039/d0fo01009j 
PMID: 32666978 

