
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Aug 5;21(16). pii: E5614. doi: 10.3390/ijms21165614.

Development of CRISPR Interference (CRISPRi) Platform for Metabolic Engineering
of Leuconostoc citreum and Its Application for Engineering Riboflavin
Biosynthesis.

Son J(1), Jang SH(1), Cha JW(1), Jeong KJ(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, BK21 Plus program, KAIST,
291 Daehak-ro, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 34141, Korea.
(2)Institute for The BioCentury, KAIST, 291 Daehak-ro, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 34141,
Korea.

Leuconostoccitreum, a hetero-fermentative type of lactic acid bacteria, is a
crucial probiotic candidate because of its ability to promote human health.
However, inefficient gene manipulation tools limit its utilization in
bioindustries. We report, for the first time, the development of a CRISPR
(Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats) interference
(CRISPRi) system for engineering L. citreum. For reliable expression, the
expression system of synthetic single guide RNA (sgRNA) and the deactivated Cas9 
of Streptococcus pyogenes (SpdCas9) were constructed in a bicistronic design
(BCD) platform using a high-copy-number plasmid. The expression of SpdCas9 and
sgRNA was optimized by examining the combination of two synthetic promoters and
Shine-Dalgarno sequences; the strong expression of sgRNA and the weak expression 
of SpdCas9 exhibited the most significant downregulation (20-fold decrease) of
the target gene (sfGFP), without cell growth retardation caused by SpdCas9
overexpression. The feasibility of the optimized CRISPRi system was demonstrated 
by modulating the biosynthesis of riboflavin. Using the CRISPRi system, the
expression of ribF and folE genes was downregulated (3.3-fold and 5.6-fold
decreases, respectively), thereby improving riboflavin production. In addition,
the co-expression of the rib operon was introduced and the production of
riboflavin was further increased up to 1.7 mg/L, which was 1.53 times higher than
that of the wild-type strain.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21165614 
PMCID: PMC7460652
PMID: 32764465 

