
1. Waste Manag. 2020 Sep 30;118:585-590. doi: 10.1016/j.wasman.2020.09.025. [Epub
ahead of print]

Coffee residue as a valorization bio-agent for shelf-life extension of lactic
acid bacteria under cryopreservation.

Choi IS(1), Ko SH(2), Kim HM(1), Yang JE(1), Jeong SG(1), Chang JY(1), Lee KH(3),
Qi SB(4), Xin Q(5), Cui CB(4), Moon JH(6), Park HW(7).

Author information: 
(1)R&D Division, World Institute of Kimchi, Gwangju 61755, Republic of Korea.
(2)R&D Division, World Institute of Kimchi, Gwangju 61755, Republic of Korea;
Department of Food Science and Technology, Chonnam National University, Gwangju
61186, Republic of Korea.
(3)Center for Research Facilities, Chonnam National University, Gwangju 61186,
Republic of Korea.
(4)Key Laboratory of Natural Resources of Changbai Mountain and Functional
Molecules, Yanbian University, Ministry of Education, Yanji, Jilin 133002, China.
(5)College of Pharmacy, Yanbian University, Yanji, Jilin 133002, China.
(6)Department of Food Science and Technology, Chonnam National University,
Gwangju 61186, Republic of Korea.
(7)R&D Division, World Institute of Kimchi, Gwangju 61755, Republic of Korea.
Electronic address: haewoong@wikim.re.kr.

The present work describes the feasibility of coffee residue extracts as
cryoprotective agents in the storage stability of freeze-dried lactic acid
bacteria. Coffee residue extracts were extracted from coffee residue, produced
after coffee extraction for coffee powder and instant coffee preparation, using
an autoclave. Leuconostoc mesenteroides WiKim32 was selected to evaluate the
ability of coffee residue extracts to protect bacteria during freeze-dried
storage. The storage stability of freeze-dried Leu. mesenteroides WiKim32 with
coffee residue extracts was comparable to those with commercial cryoprotective
agents. Coffee residue extracts contributed to storage stability immediately
after freeze-drying (61.2%) and subsequent storage (48.7%). Our data indicate
that the protective effect of the coffee residue extracts is associated with
ions, carbohydrates, and phenolic compounds. Coffee residue extracts are feasible
materials, which can reduce the storage and distribution costs compared to
commercial agents currently available.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wasman.2020.09.025 
PMID: 33010689 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

