
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2019 Oct 15;139:1224-1231. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2019.08.114. Epub 2019 Aug 14.

Purification and characterization of an exopolysaccharide from Leuconostoc lactis
L2.

Zhao D(1), Jiang J(1), Du R(1), Guo S(1), Ping W(1), Ling H(2), Ge J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Engineering Research Center of Agricultural Microbiology Technology, Ministry 
of Education, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150500, People's Republic of China; Laboratory
of Microbiology, College of Life Science, Heilongjiang University, Harbin,
Heilongjiang 150080, People's Republic of China.
(2)Engineering Research Center of Agricultural Microbiology Technology, Ministry 
of Education, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150500, People's Republic of China; Laboratory
of Microbiology, College of Life Science, Heilongjiang University, Harbin,
Heilongjiang 150080, People's Republic of China. Electronic address:
linghongzhi@163.com.
(3)Engineering Research Center of Agricultural Microbiology Technology, Ministry 
of Education, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150500, People's Republic of China; Laboratory
of Microbiology, College of Life Science, Heilongjiang University, Harbin,
Heilongjiang 150080, People's Republic of China. Electronic address:
gejingping@126.com.

An exopolysaccharide (EPS)-producing bacterium was isolated from the homemade
fermentation product of hami melon (Cucumis melo var. saccharinus) and identified
as Leuconostoc lactis L2 mainly based on 16S rDNA sequence analysis and the API
50 CHL test. The monosaccharide composition of Leu. lactis L2 EPS was determined 
to be glucose by gas chromatography (GC), and its molecular weight was
3.7 × 103 kDa by high-performance size exclusion chromatography (HPSEC). The EPS 
microscopic characteristics were compact, branched and tubular under scanning
electron microscopy (SEM). Atomic force microscopy (AFM) showed a smooth and
consistent polymeric matrix. The EPS was a linear polymer composed of
α-(1 → 6)-linked D-pyranose residues, based on the Fourier transform infrared
(FT-IR), 1H, 13C nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and heteronuclear single
quantum coherence (HSQC) spectra. This EPS exhibited a high water solubility
index (WSI) and water holding capacity (WHC) (91.90 ± 2.45% and 509.45 ± 28.59%, 
respectively), as well as good emulsifying properties with many organic solvents.
These results collectively suggest the applicable potential of this EPS in the
food, feed and pharmaceutical fields.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2019.08.114 
PMID: 31421168  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

