
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 May 16;321:108546. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108546. Epub 2020 Feb 1.

Isolation, characterisation and exploitation of lactic acid bacteria capable of
efficient conversion of sugars to mannitol.

Rice T(1), Sahin AW(2), Lynch KM(2), Arendt EK(2), Coffey A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science, Cork Institute of Technology, Bishopstown,
Cork, Ireland.
(2)School of Nutrition and Health, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(3)Department of Biological Science, Cork Institute of Technology, Bishopstown,
Cork, Ireland. Electronic address: aidan.coffey@cit.ie.

The demand for sugar reduction in products across the food and beverage
industries has evoked the development of novel processes including the
application of fermentation with lactic acid bacteria. Heterofermentative lactic 
acid bacteria (LAB) are diverse in their ability to utilise fermentable sugars
and can also convert fructose into the sweet tasting polyol, mannitol. The
sourdough microbiota has long been recognised as an ecological niche for a range 
of homofermentative and heterofermentative lactic acid bacteria. A leading
determinant in the biodiversity of sourdough microbial populations is the type of
flour used. Ten non-wheat flours were used and back-slopped for 7 days resulting 
in the isolation of 52 mannitol producing isolates which spanned six
heterofermentative species of the genera Lactobacillus, Leuconostoc and
Weissella. Assessment of mannitol productivity in fructose concentrations up to
100 g/L found Leuconostoc citreum TR116, to have the best mannitol producing
characteristics, consuming 95% of available fructose and yielding 0.68 g of
mannitol per gram of fructose consumed which equates to the maximal theoretical
yield. Investigation of the effects of initial pH on mannitol production and
other fermentation parameters in the isolates found pH 7 to be best for isolates 
Lactobacillus brevis TR052, Leuconostoc fallax TR111, Leuconostoc citreum TR116, 
Leuconostoc mesenteroides TR154 and Weissella paramesenteroides TR212, while pH 6
was optimal for Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides TR080. The fermentation of apple 
juice with each isolate resulted in sugar reduction ranging from 30.3-74.0 g/L
(34-72%). When apple juice fermentation with Leuconostoc citreum TR116 was scaled
up to 1 L bioreactor a reduction in sugar of 98.6 g/L (83%) was achieved along
with the production of 61.6 g/L mannitol. This demonstrates a fermentative
process for sugar reduction in fruit juice with concomitant production of the
sweet metabolite mannitol to create a fermentate that is suitable for further
development as a low sugar fruit juice alternative.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108546 
PMID: 32087410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
certify that they have NO affiliations with or involvement in any organization or
entity with any financial interest (such as honoraria; educational grants;
participation in speakers’ bureaus; membership, employment, consultancies, stock 
ownership, or other equity interest; and expert testimony or patent-licensing
arrangements), or non-financial interest (such as personal or professional
relationships, affiliations, knowledge or beliefs) in the subject matter or
materials discussed in this manuscript.

