
1. Food Funct. 2020 Feb 26;11(2):1672-1683. doi: 10.1039/c9fo02054c.

Synthesis of potential prebiotic α-glucooligosaccharides using microbial
glucansucrase and their in vitro fecal fermentation.

Hu X (1), Song L , Yang Y , Jin Z , Miao M .

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University,
Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, P.R. China. miaoming@jiangnan.edu.cn.

Novel α-glucooligosaccharides were synthesized by the acceptor reaction of
Leuconostoc citreum SK24.002 glucansucrase with maltose and sucrose. The impact
of synthesis conditions, including the ratio of sucrose to maltose and the
substrate concentration, on the formation of α-glucooligosaccharides was
evaluated. Under the optimized experimental conditions, the yield of a mixture of
α-glucooligosaccharides with DP 3-5 reached approximately 56.4% with a
concentration of 170.7 mg mL-1. Each of these α-glucooligosaccharides was
purified, and the structures were assigned as follows:
α-D-Glcp-(1,6)-α-D-Glcp-(1,4)-D-Glcp (DP3),
α-D-Glcp-(1,3)-α-D-Glcp-(1,6)-α-D-Glcp-(1,4)-D-Glcp (DP4), and
α-D-Glcp-(1,6)-α-D-Glcp-(1,3)-α-D-Glcp-(1,6)-α-D-Glcp-(1,4)-D-Glcp (DP5),
respectively. For these three structurally different oligosaccharides, the
fermentation selectivity by fecal bacteria was determined in anaerobic batch
culture. Fructooligosaccharide (FOS) was used as a positive prebiotic control.
Similar to FOS, all three α-glucooligosaccharides selectively stimulated the
proliferation of Bifidobacteria and Lactobacilli compared with the control. DP3
exhibited the strongest prebiotic ability to increase the Bifidobacterium and
Lactobacillus population, whereas DP5 produced the most short-chain fatty acids. 
In addition, DP4 produced the highest butyrate concentration and resulted in the 
lowest acetate : propionate ratio. These results suggested that the enzymatically
synthesized α-glucooligosaccharides were potential prebiotics, underlining
correlations between the structural features of oligosaccharides and their impact
on the metabolism of fecal microbiota.

DOI: 10.1039/c9fo02054c 
PMID: 32031198 

