
1. Heliyon. 2020 Jul 22;6(7):e04462. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e04462. eCollection
2020 Jul.

Fermentation of coffee pulp using indigenous lactic acid bacteria with
simultaneous aeration to produce cascara with a high antioxidant activity.

Oktaviani L(1), Astuti DI(1), Rosmiati M(1), Abduh MY(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences and Technology, Institut Teknologi Bandung, Jalan
Ganesha 10, 40132 Bandung, Indonesia.
(2)Center of Excellence for Nutraceuticals, Bioscience and Biotechnology Research
Center, Institut Teknologi Bandung, Jalan Ganesha 10, 40132 Bandung, Indonesia.

Coffee pulp which is a by-product of coffee production contains considerable
amounts of phenolic compounds that can be valorised to produce cascara as an
antioxidant beverage. The fermentation and drying conditions of the coffee pulp
have a great influence on the bioactive compounds in the cascara. This study
aimed to investigate the effect of natural fermentation with simultaneous
aeration on the phenolic content and antioxidant activity of cascara. A
systematic study was carried out using a response surface methodology with a
face-centered central composite design to determine the effect of fermentation
time (0-8 h) and temperature (27-37 °C) on the number of bacteria in the coffee
pulp after natural fermentation with simultaneous aeration (an air flowrate of 4 
m/s) as well as phenolic content and antioxidant activity of cascara. The
experimental dataset was modelled with an empirical model using multi-variable
non-linear regression. A good agreement between model and experimental data was
obtained. At the optimum conditions (4.2 h, 31.8 °C), the phenolic content was
6.72% whereas the antioxidant activity was 27.6%. Indigenous lactic acid bacteria
were also isolated from the coffee pulp and determined as Leuconostoc
pseudomesenteroides. The isolated bacteria can be used as a starter for
controlled fermentation of coffee pulp as it increased the antioxidant activity
up to 15% higher than the antioxidant activity of cascara obtained at the optimum
conditions for natural fermentation with simultaneous aeration and 30% higher
from the fresh coffee pulp.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e04462 
PMCID: PMC7387815
PMID: 32743093 

