
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 Nov 16;333:108796. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108796. Epub 2020 Jul 25.

The crucial role of yeasts in the wet fermentation of coffee beans and quality.

Elhalis H(1), Cox J(1), Frank D(2), Zhao J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Food Science and Technology, School of Chemical Engineering, The University of
New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.
(2)Commonwealth Scientific and Industry Research Organisation, 11 Julius Ave,
North Ryde, NSW 2113, Australia.
(3)Food Science and Technology, School of Chemical Engineering, The University of
New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia. Electronic address:
jian.zhao@unsw.edu.au.

The objective of this study was to investigate the role of yeasts in the wet
fermentation of coffee beans and their contribution to coffee quality using a
novel approach. Natamycin (300 ppm) was added to the fermentation mass to
suppress yeast growth and their metabolic activities, and the resultant microbial
ecology, bean chemistry and sensory quality were analyzed and compared to
non-treated spontaneous fermentation we reported previously. The yeast community 
was dominated by Hanseniaspora uvarum and Pichia kudriavzevii and grew to a
maximum population of about 5.5 log CFU/g in the absence of Natamycin, while when
Natamycin was added yeasts were suppressed. The major bacterial species in both
the spontaneous and yeast-suppressed fermentations included the lactic acid
bacteria Leuconostoc mesenteroides and Lactococcus lactis, the acetic acid
bacteria Gluconobacter cerinus and Acetobacter persici and the Enterobacteriaceae
Enterobacter, Citrobacter and Erwinia. For both fermentations, the mucilage
layers were completely degraded by the end of the process and the absence of
yeast activities had no significant impact on mucilage degradation. During
fermentation, reducing sugars were consumed while lactic acid was accumulated
inside the beans, and its concentration was significantly higher in the
spontaneous fermentation (3 times) than that where yeasts were suppressed by
Natamycin. Glycerol was detected with a concentration of 0.08% in the absence of 
Natamycin and was not identified when Natamycin was added. Green beans fermented 
with yeast growth contained a higher amount of isoamyl alcohol (21 times),
ethanol (3.7 times), acetaldehyde (8 times), and ethyl acetate (25 times)
compared to beans fermented in the absence of yeast activities, which remained
higher in the former after roasting. Beans fermented without yeast activities had
a mild fruity aroma, and lower sensory scores of fragrances (7.0), flavor (6.5), 
acidity (6.3), body (7.0) and overall score (6.5) compared to the former. These
findings demonstrated the crucial roles of yeasts in wet fermentation of coffee
beans and for producing high quality coffee.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108796 
PMID: 32771820 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

