
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Sep;90:103489. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103489. Epub 2020 Mar 
27.

Synergistic antimicrobial activity of oregano and thyme thymol essential oils
against Leuconostoc citreum in a laboratory medium and tomato juice.

Lee S(1), Kim H(2), Beuchat LR(3), Kim Y(4), Ryu JH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea
University, 145 Anam-ro, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul, 02841, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Food and Nutrition, Wonkwang University, 460 Iksandae-ro, Iksan,
Jeonbuk, 54538, Republic of Korea.
(3)Center for Food Safety and Department of Food Science and Technology,
University of Georgia, 1109 Experiment Street, Griffin, GA, 30223-1797, USA.
(4)Korea Food Research Institute, 245 Nongsaengmyeong-ro, Iseo-myeon, Wanju-gun, 
Jeonbuk, 55365, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea
University, 145 Anam-ro, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul, 02841, Republic of Korea. Electronic
address: escheri@korea.ac.kr.

This study was done to identify combinations of essential oils (EOs) that elicit 
synergistic antimicrobial effects against Leuconostoc citreum, a spoilage
bacterium in vegetable and fruit juices. Twenty-four EOs were tested for
antimicrobial activity against L. citreum using an agar well diffusion assay. Ten
EOs showed relatively strong antimicrobial activity. Among those, cinnamon bark, 
oregano, and thyme thymol EOs showed the strongest activity (minimal inhibitory
concentration = 1.25 μL/mL). It was confirmed that a combination of oregano and
thyme thymol EOs had a synergistic antimicrobial activity (fractional inhibitory 
concentration index = 0.3750) using a checkerboard assay. This combination also
had a synergistic antimicrobial activity against L. citreum in tomato juice. An
initial population of L. citreum in tomato juice (5.3 log CFU/mL) increased
to ≥ 8.6 log CFU/mL within 48 h at 15 °C and 24 h at 25 °C. Populations reached
6.8-7.2 log CFU/mL in tomato juice containing either 0.156 mL/mL oregano or thyme
thymol. However, in the presence of both EOs (0.156 μL/mL in total), populations 
of L. citreum were significantly lower (5.7-6.5 log CFU/mL) (P ≤ 0.05). Findings 
will be useful when developing non-thermal food preservation technologies to
increase the shelf-life of juices and other foods not containing synthetic
preservatives.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103489 
PMID: 32336377 

