
1. Int J Food Sci. 2020 Jul 2;2020:3941924. doi: 10.1155/2020/3941924. eCollection
2020.

Antimicrobial Activity of Chitosan-Based Films Enriched with Green Tea Extracts
on Murine Norovirus, Escherichia coli, and Listeria innocua.

Amankwaah C(1), Li J(2), Lee J(1), Pascall MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, The Ohio State University, 2015
Fyffe Road, Columbus, Ohio, USA.
(2)Department of Veterinary Biosciences, The Ohio State University, 1925 Coffey
Road, Columbus, Ohio, USA.

Edible films can be designed to serve as carriers of antimicrobial agents and be 
used to control pathogenic foodborne viruses and bacteria. This research tested
this concept by dissolving green tea extract (GTE) in chitosan film-forming
solutions (FFS) and using it to prepare dried chitosan edible films. As a
control, the GTE was also dissolved in deionized water (DW). The FFS and the
dried chitosan films with the GTE and the DW without chitosan were all evaluated 
against murine norovirus (MNV-1), Escherichia coli K12, and Listeria innocua.
Both the FFS and the DW with GTE were incubated with ~107 PFU/ml of the virus
suspensions for 3 h. The chitosan films with GTE were incubated for 4 and 24 h at
23 ± 1°C. The results showed that the DW containing 1, 1.5, and 2.5% aqueous GTE,
significantly (p < 0.05) reduced MNV-1 plaques by 1.7, 2.5, and 3.3 logs after
3 h exposure, respectively. Similarly, FFS containing 2.5 and 5.0% GTE reduced
MNV-1 counts by 2.5 and 4.0 logs, respectively, after 3 h exposure. The dried
chitosan films with 5, 10, and 15% GTE were also effective against MNV-1
infectivity. After 24 h incubation, the 5 and 10% chitosan GTE films produced
significant (p < 0.05) titer reductions of 1.6 and 4.5 logs, respectively.
Chitosan films containing 15% GTE reduced MNV-1 plaques to undetectable levels in
24 h. All chitosan GTE films reduced E. coli K12 and L. innocua populations to
undetectable levels in tryptic soy broth after 24 h exposure. The results of this
study showed that edible films enriched with GTE have potential to reduce both
foodborne viruses and bacteria.

Copyright © 2020 Collins Amankwaah et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/3941924 
PMCID: PMC7355381
PMID: 32714970 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this article.

