
1. Food Sci Technol Int. 2020 May 18:1082013220925931. doi:
10.1177/1082013220925931. [Epub ahead of print]

Non-thermal atmospheric gas plasma for decontamination of sliced cheese and
changes in quality.

Huang YM(1), Chen CK(2), Hsu CL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, National Chin-Yi University 
of Technology, Taichung.
(2)Department of Food Science, Tunghai University, Taichung.

The atmospheric-pressure non-thermal dielectric barrier discharge (DBD) plasma
has recently emerged as an efficient decontamination method for the food safety
enhancement. Thus the objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness
of a simple DBD plasma treatment, with a relatively low-frequency power supply
operating at 60 Hz, for microbial inactivation. A parametric study of operating
conditions for bacterial inactivation was conducted using nutrient agar
inoculated with Escherichia coli (2.28--6.28 log CFU/ml). The microbial log
reduction was enhanced with increasing input power (30, 50, 70 W) and plasma
exposure time (0, 1, 3, 5, 7 min). The inactivation effect was increased by
decreasing inter-electrode gap (2, 1.5, 1 cm) and by reducing the initial
microorganism concentration. Accordingly, a DBD plasma treatment at 50 W for
10 min could lead to complete killing of E. coli and partial inactivation of
Listeria innocua on cheese (mean log reduction: 4.75 ± 0.02 and 0.72 ± 0.01,
respectively). The decontamination efficacy of DBD plasma was affected by the
types of microorganisms. The changes in hardness and color of cheese were
unnoticeable after 10 min treatment with a power of 50 W. Overall, the results
suggested that the DBD plasma can be potentially exploited to improve the food
safety.

DOI: 10.1177/1082013220925931 
PMID: 32423241 

