
1. J Food Prot. 2020 Oct 1;83(10):1838-1843. doi: 10.4315/JFP-20-104.

Effect of Storage Conditions on Shelf Stability of Undiluted Neutral Electrolyzed
Water.

Block Z(1), Eyles A(2)(3), Corkrey R(1), Stanley R(1)(2), Ross T(1)(2),
Kocharunchitt C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Food Safety and Innovation, University of Tasmania, Private Bag 98 
Hobart Tasmania 7001.
(2)ARC Training Centre for Innovative Horticultural Products, Tasmanian Institute
of Agriculture, University of Tasmania, Private Bag 98 Hobart Tasmania 7001.
(3)(ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4432-6216 [A.E.]).

ABSTRACT: Neutral electrolyzed water (NEW) is an oxidizing sanitizer that can be 
made locally on-site; it is often stored in a ready-to-use format to accumulate
the large volumes required for periodic or seasonal use. The shelf stability of
NEW sanitizer was, therefore, assessed under various storage conditions to guide 
the development of protocols for its industrial application. To that end, fresh
NEW with an available chlorine concentration (ACC) of 480 mg/L, pH 6.96, and
oxidation reduction potential (ORP) of 916 mV was stored under different
conditions. These were open or sealed polypropylene bottles, three different
surface area-to-volume (SA:V) ratios (0.9, 1.7, and 8.7), and two temperatures (4
and 25°C). NEW stored at 4°C was significantly more stable than NEW stored at
25°C; ACC and pH decreased by 137 mg/L and 0.7, respectively, whereas ORP
increased by 23 mV, after 101 days of storage. At 25°C, ACC decreased to <0.01
mg/L after 52 days in bottles with a SA:V ratio of 8.7, with a similar decrease
after 101 days in bottles with a SA:V ratio of 1.7. However, pH decreased by up
to 3.7 pH units, and ORP increased by up to 208 mV. The antimicrobial efficacy of
"aged" electrolyzed oxidizing (EO) water with different ACC and ORP, but the same
pH (i.e., 3.4 ± 0.2), was evaluated against Escherichia coli and Listeria innocua
to determine any differences in residual antimicrobial activity. EO water with an
ACC of ≥7 mg/L and an ORP of 1,094 mV caused a reduction of at least 4.7 log,
whereas EO water with nondetectable ACC and considerably high ORP (716 mV) had
little antimicrobial effect (<1-log reduction). Results from this study indicate 
that the efficacy of NEW as a sanitizer for large-scale applications such as
horticulture can be maintained for at least 3 months when it is stored in closed 
containers with low SA:V ratio at low temperatures.
HIGHLIGHTS:

Copyright ©, International Association for Food Protection.

DOI: 10.4315/JFP-20-104 
PMID: 32991722 

