
1. J Food Prot. 2020 Jun 5. doi: 10.4315/JFP-20-127. [Epub ahead of print]

Evaluation of Antimicrobial Activity of Buforin I and Nisin and Synergistic
Effect of the Combination of them as a Novel Antimicrobial Preservative.

Roshanak S, Shahidi F(1), Tabatabaei Yazdi F, Javadmanesh A, Movaffagh J.

Author information: 
(1)Ferdowsi University of Mashhad Professor Food science and Technology Azadi
IRAN (ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF) Mashhad Razavi Khorasan 9177948974.

One of the most effective methods for increasing the antimicrobial activity of a 
substance is to combine it with one or more other antimicrobial agents. The aim
of the present study was to evaluate the antimicrobial effect of buforin I and
nisin alone and investigate the synergistic action of these compounds against the
most important food spoilage microorganisms in clouding B. subtilis, S.
epidermidis, L. innocua, E. coli, S. Enteritidis, A. oryzae, R. glutinis and G.
candidum. The results of MIC and MBC/MFC examinations showed that buforin I had
higher antimicrobial activity than nisin on all the microbial strains used in
this study (pâ‰¤0.5). E.coli was the most resistant to both antimicrobial agents,
while Listeria innocua and Staphylococcus epidermidis were the most sensitive to 
nisin and buforin I, respectively. The results of synergistic interaction between
buforin I and nisin indicated that the combination of buforin I and nisin on B.
subtilis, S. epidermidis and A. oryzae showed synergistic effect, while it had no
effect on S. Enteritidis and Geotrichum candidum. The combination of buforin I
and nisin showed partial synergistic effect on Listeria innocua, Escherichia
coli, Rhodotorula glutinis. Assessment of viability of the microorganisms under
the antimicrobial agents alone and in combination with each other at MICs and
FICs indicated that use of these antimicrobial agents in combination enhances
antimicrobial activity at lower concentrations of both agents. The present study 
investigated the antimicrobial properties of buforin I against food spoilage
microorganisms for the first time and suggests that its use alone or in
combination with nisin may provide a clear horizon for the application of
antimicrobial peptides as natural preservatives. Thus, the combination of
antimicrobial peptides and traditional antimicrobial food preservative could be a
promising option for the prevention of contamination, spoilage, and infestation
of food and beverage products.

DOI: 10.4315/JFP-20-127 
PMID: 32502264 

