
1. Food Microbiol. 2021 Feb;93:103610. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103610. Epub 2020 Aug 
3.

Neutral electrolyzed oxidizing water is effective for pre-harvest decontamination
of fresh produce.

Ogunniyi AD(1), Dandie CE(2), Brunetti G(2), Drigo B(2), Aleer S(2), Hall B(3),
Ferro S(4), Deo P(5), Venter H(5), Myers B(6), Donner E(2), Lombi E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Future Industries Institute, University of South Australia, Mawson Lakes,
South Australia, Australia. Electronic address: david.ogunniyi@unisa.edu.au.
(2)Future Industries Institute, University of South Australia, Mawson Lakes,
South Australia, Australia.
(3)Plant Health and Biosecurity, SARDI, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(4)Ecas4 Australia Pty Ltd, 8/1 London Road, Mile End South, South Australia,
Australia.
(5)Health and Biomedical Innovation, Clinical and Health Sciences, University of 
South Australia, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(6)Australian Flow Management Group & UniSA STEM, University of South Australia, 
Mawson Lakes, South Australia, Australia.

Pre-harvest sanitization of irrigation water has potential for reducing pathogen 
contamination of fresh produce. We compared the sanitizing effects of irrigation 
water containing neutral electrolyzed oxidizing water (EOW) or sodium
hypochlorite (NaClO) on pre-harvest lettuce and baby spinach leaves artificially 
contaminated with a mixture of Escherichia coli, Salmonella Enteritidis and
Listeria innocua (~1 × 108 colony-forming units/mL each resuspended in water
containing 100 mg/L dissolved organic carbon, simulating a splash-back scenario
from contaminated soil/manure). The microbial load and leaf quality were assessed
over 7 days, and post-harvest shelf life evaluated for 10 days. Irrigation with
water containing EOW or NaClO at 50 mg/L free chlorine significantly reduced the 
inoculated bacterial load by ≥ 1.5 log10, whereas tap water irrigation reduced
the inoculated bacterial load by an average of 0.5 log10, when compared with
untreated leaves. There were no visual effects of EOW or tap water irrigation on 
baby spinach or lettuce leaf surfaces pre- or post-harvest, whereas there were
obvious negative effects of NaClO irrigation on leaf appearance for both plants, 
including severe necrotic zones and yellowing/browning of leaves. Therefore, EOW 
could serve as a viable alternative to chemical-based sanitizers for pre-harvest 
disinfection of minimally processed vegetables.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103610 
PMID: 32912583 

