
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 Sep 11;335:108887. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108887. [Epub ahead of print]

Water UV-C treatment alone or in combination with peracetic acid: A technology to
maintain safety and quality of strawberries.

Nicolau-Lapeña I(1), Abadias M(2), Viñas I(3), Bobo G(2), Lafarga T(2),
Ribas-Agustí A(4), Aguiló-Aguayo I(5).

Author information: 
(1)Food Technology Department, University of Lleida, Agrotecnio Center, Rovira
Roure 191, 25198 Lleida, Catalonia, Spain.
(2)IIRTA, Postharvest Programme, Edifici Fruitcentre, Parc Científic i Tecnològic
Agroalimentari de Lleida, Parc de Gardeny, 25003 Lleida, Catalonia, Spain.
(3)Food Technology Department, University of Lleida, Agrotecnio Center, Rovira
Roure 191, 25198 Lleida, Catalonia, Spain. Electronic address:
inmaculada.vinas@udl.cat.
(4)IRTA, Food Safety Program, Finca Camps i Armet s/n, 17121 Monells, Spain.
(5)IIRTA, Postharvest Programme, Edifici Fruitcentre, Parc Científic i Tecnològic
Agroalimentari de Lleida, Parc de Gardeny, 25003 Lleida, Catalonia, Spain..
Electronic address: Ingrid.Aguilo@irta.cat.

Disinfection of fruits is one of the most important steps since they are going to
be eaten fresh-or minimally-processed. This step affects quality, safety, and
shelf-life of the product. Despite being a common sanitizer in the fruit
industry, chlorine may react with organic matter leading to the formation of
toxic by-products. Alternative sustainable disinfection strategies to chlorine
are under study to minimize environmental and human health impact. Water-assisted
UV-C light (WUV-C) is proposed here as an alternative sanitizing method for
strawberries. In this study, strawberries were washed for 1 or 5 min in a tank
with 2 or 4 lamps on, each emitting UV-C light at 17.2 W/cm2, or in a chlorine
solution (200 ppm, pH 6.5). Moreover, trials with 4 lamps on, together with a
washing solution consisting on peracetic acid at 40 or 80 ppm, were carried out. 
Overall, quality and nutritional parameters of strawberries after treatments were
maintained. Changes in color were not noticeable and fruits did not lose
firmness. No major changes were observed in antioxidant activity, organic acid,
anthocyanin, vitamin C, and total phenolic content. Yeasts and molds were not
affected by the WUV-C treatment, and 5 min were needed to significantly reduce
total aerobic mesophylls population. However, reductions of artificially
inoculated Listeria innocua and Salmonella Typhimurium after WUV-C treatments
were comparable to those obtained with chlorine-wash, which were 3.0 log CFU / g.
Moreover, WUV-C light was effective to minimize microorganisms remaining in
washing water, avoiding cross-contamination and thus, allowing water
recirculation. This effect was improved when combining the action of UV-C light
with peracetic acid, showing the suitability of this combined treatment,
understood as an alternative to chlorine sanitation, for sanitizing strawberries 
and keeping the populations of pathogenic bacteria in washing water lower than
0.6 ± 0.1 log CFU / mL.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108887 
PMID: 33002710 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no conflict of interests.

