
1. Ital J Food Saf. 2020 Aug 19;9(2):9133. doi: 10.4081/ijfs.2020.9133. eCollection 
2020 Aug 19.

Effect of production process and high-pressure processing on viability of
Listeria innocua in traditional Italian dry-cured coppa.

Taddei R(1), Giacometti F(2), Bardasi L(1), Bonilauri P(3), Ramini M(1), Fontana 
MC(1), Bassi P(1), Castagnini S(1), Ceredi F(1), Pelliconi MF(1), Serraino A(2), 
Tomasello F(2), Piva S(2), Mondo E(2), Merialdi G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale delle Lombardia e dell'Emilia Romagna,
Sede Territoriale di Bologna.
(2)Dipartimento di Scienze Mediche Veterinarie, Università di Bologna, Ozzano
dell'Emilia (BO).
(3)Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale delle Lombardia e dell'Emilia Romagna,
Sede Territoriale di Reggio Emilia, Reggio nell'Emilia, Italy.

In this study the effect of the application of High Pressure Treatment (HPP)
combined with four different manufacturing processes on the inactivation of
Listeria innocua, used as a surrogate for L. monocytogenes, in artificially
contaminated coppa samples was evaluated in order to verify the most suitable
strategy to meet the Listeria inactivation requirements needed for the
exportation of dry-cured meat in the U.S. Fresh anatomical cuts intended for
coppa production were supplied by four different delicatessen factories located
in Northern Italy. Raw meat underwent experimental contamination with Listeria
innocua using a mixture of 5 strains. Surface contamination of the fresh
anatomical cuts was carried out by immersion into inoculum containing Listeria
spp. The conditions of the HPP treatment were: pressure 593 MPa, time 290
seconds, water treatment temperature 14°C. Listeria innocua was enumerated on
surface and deep samples post contamination, resting, ripening and HPP treatment.
The results of this study show how the reduction of the microbial load on coppa
during the production process did not vary among three companies (P>0.05) ranging
from 3.73 to 4.30 log CFU/g, while it was significantly different (P<0.01) for
the fourth company (0.92 log CFU/g). HPP treatment resulted in a significant
(P<0.01) deep decrease of L. innocua count with values ranging between 1.63-3.54 
log CFU/g with no significant differences between companies. Regarding
superficial contamination, HPP treatment resulted significant (P<0.01) only in
Coppa produced by two companies. The results highlight that there were processes 
less effective to inhibit the pathogen; in particular for company D an increase
of L. innocua count was shown during processing and HPP alone cannot be able to
in reaching the Listeria inactivation requirements needed for exportation of
dry-cured meat in the U.S. According to the data reported in this paper, HPP
treatment increases the ability of the manufacturing process of coppa in reducing
Listeria count with the objective of a lethality treatment.

©Copyright: the Author(s).

DOI: 10.4081/ijfs.2020.9133 
PMCID: PMC7459741
PMID: 32913727 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest.

