
1. J Anal Sci Technol. 2020;11(1):21. doi: 10.1186/s40543-020-00220-y. Epub 2020 Jun
11.

Reactive-oxygen-species-mediated mechanism for photoinduced antibacterial and
antiviral activities of Ag3PO4.

Seo Y(1), Park K(1), Hong Y(2), Lee ES(3), Kim SS(2), Jung YT(3), Park H(1), Kwon
C(1), Cho YS(4), Huh YD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Dankook University, Cheonan, 31116 Republic
of Korea.
(2)Department of Food Engineering, Dankook University, Cheonan, 31116 Republic of
Korea.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Dankook University, Cheonan, 31116 Republic of
Korea.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Dankook University, Cheonan, 31116 Republic of Korea.

Cubic-shaped Ag3PO4 crystals with a mean size of 1 μm were synthesized by a
precipitation method from a mixed solution of AgNO3, Na2HPO4, and
triethanolamine. The antibacterial activities against Escherichia coli, Listeria 
innocua, and Pseudomonas syringae DC3000 in both the absence and presence of
Ag3PO4 under dark conditions and in the presence of Ag3PO4 under red-light
(625 nm) and blue-light (460 nm) irradiation were examined. The concentrations of
reactive oxygen species (ROS) were also measured in the antibacterial action of
the Ag3PO4 against Escherichia coli. The photoinduced enhancement of the Ag3PO4
antibacterial activity under blue-light irradiation is explained by the formation
of ROS during the antibacterial action of the Ag3PO4. Moreover, the antiviral
activity of Ag3PO4 against amphotropic 10A1 murine leukemia virus enhanced under 
blue-light irradiation via ROS production. These results provide an insight into 
extended bio-applications of Ag3PO4.

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1186/s40543-020-00220-y 
PMCID: PMC7288616
PMID: 32542115 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.

