
1. Biosens Bioelectron. 2020 Nov 15;168:112527. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2020.112527.
Epub 2020 Aug 22.

Electrochemical biosensor for rapid detection of bacteria based on facile
synthesis of silver wire across electrodes.

Feng Y(1), Zhou D(1), Gao L(2), He F(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Chemo/Biosensing and Chemometrics, College of
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha, 410082, China.
(2)Chemistry Department, Reed College, Portland, 97202, USA.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Chemo/Biosensing and Chemometrics, College of
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha, 410082, China.
Electronic address: fengjiaohe@hnu.edu.cn.

The early detection of bacteria is of critical importance in addressing serious
public health problems. Here, an electrochemical biosensor for rapid detection of
bacteria based on facile synthesis of silver wire across electrodes was
constructed. High-variable region of 16S rRNA of bacteria was used as biomarker. 
Polymerase-free synthesis of silver wire was introduced into electrochemical
signal transduction to improve the sensitivity of electrochemical detection. The 
construction biosensor of proposed method is as follows: Metastable hairpin probe
H1 was modified on electrode surface, biomarker can open the stem-loop structure 
of H1 and activates HCR. The alternate opening of the stem-loop structure of H1
and H2-AuNPs finally results in the formation of long double-stranded DNA-RNA
(HCR products) -AuNPs. The formed AuNPs modified HCR products was blown in one
direction using N2 to across the electrode gap. Using this HCR products as
template, the silver wire was formed between the electrodes by silver deposition,
and resulted in sharp change in electrical parameters of electrode. As the
proof-of-concept work, multichannel series piezoelectric quartz crystal (MSPQC)
was utilized as detector. The detection of Staphylococcus aureus in the
concentration range from 50 to 107 CFU/mL within 100 min was achieved. The
detection limit was 50 CFU/mL. Escherichia coli, Salmonella enteritidis, Listeria
innocua, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Streptococcus pneumoniae did not interfere
the detection results. This newly proposed electrochemical biosensor is simple,
rapid and exhibit high signal-to-noise ratio, it has great potential for being
applied in food safety monitoring and clinical diagnosis.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2020.112527 
PMID: 32905927 

