
1. Food Microbiol. 2021 Feb;93:103614. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103614. Epub 2020 Aug 
3.

A pH-neutral electrolyzed oxidizing water significantly reduces microbial
contamination of fresh spinach leaves.

Ogunniyi AD(1), Tenzin S(2), Ferro S(3), Venter H(4), Pi H(2), Amorico T(3), Deo 
P(5), Trott DJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Centre for Antimicrobial Resistance Ecology, School of Animal and
Veterinary Sciences, The University of Adelaide, Roseworthy, 5371, Australia.
Electronic address: david.ogunniyi@adelaide.edu.au.
(2)Australian Centre for Antimicrobial Resistance Ecology, School of Animal and
Veterinary Sciences, The University of Adelaide, Roseworthy, 5371, Australia.
(3)Ecas4 Australia, Unit 8 / 1 London Road, Mile End South, 5031, Australia.
(4)Health and Biomedical Innovation, Clinical and Health Sciences, University of 
South Australia, Adelaide, 5000, Australia.
(5)Health and Biomedical Innovation, Clinical and Health Sciences, University of 
South Australia, Adelaide, 5000, Australia. Electronic address:
Permal.Deo@unisa.edu.au.

There are growing demands globally to use safe, efficacious and environmentally
friendly sanitizers for post-harvest treatment of fresh produce to reduce or
eliminate spoilage and foodborne pathogens. Here, we compared the efficacy of a
pH-neutral electrolyzed oxidizing water (Ecas4 Anolyte; ECAS) with that of an
approved peroxyacetic acid-based sanitizer (Ecolab Tsunami® 100) in reducing the 
total microbial load and inoculated Escherichia coli, Salmonella Enteritidis and 
Listeria innocua populations on post-harvest baby spinach leaves over 10 days.
The impact of both sanitizers on the overall quality of the spinach leaves during
storage was also assessed by shelf life and vitamin C content measurements. ECAS 
at 50 ppm and 85 ppm significantly reduced the bacterial load compared to tap
water-treated or untreated (control) leaves, and at similar levels (approx.
10-fold reduction) to those achieved using 50 ppm of Ecolab Tsunami® 100. While
there were no obvious deleterious effects of treatment with 50 ppm Tsunami® 100
or ECAS at 50 ppm and 85 ppm on plant leaf appearance, tap water-treated and
untreated leaves showed some yellowing, bruising and sliming. Given its safety,
efficacy and environmentally-friendly characteristics, ECAS could be a viable
alternative to chemical-based sanitizers for post-harvest treatment of fresh
produce.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103614 
PMID: 32912586 

