
1. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2020 Aug 2:1-10. doi: 10.1080/09168451.2020.1799748.
[Epub ahead of print]

Characterization of collagenase found in the nonpathogenic bacterium
Lysinibacillus sphaericus VN3.

Hoa Bach TM(1), Pham TH(1), Dinh TS(2), Takagi H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, Vietnam Academy of Science and Technology , Hanoi,
Vietnam.
(2)Department of Plant Biotechnology, Faculty of Biotechnology, Vietnam National 
University of Agriculture , Hanoi, Vietnam.
(3)Division of Biological Science, Graduate School of Science and Technology,
Nara Institute of Science and Technology , Nara, Japan.

High collagenolytic activity has been detected in pathogenic bacteria.
Collagenase plays an essential role in the invasion step in animals and humans.
In this study, we characterized collagenase found in the nonpathogenic bacterium 
Lysinibacillus sphaericus VN3, which was isolated from soil in Vietnam. The
collagenase activity of the purified enzyme was strongly inhibited by Cu2+, but
it was significantly increased by Zn2+. The purified enzyme with a molecular mass
of approximately 110 kDa exhibited collagenolytic, gelatinolytic, and
caseinolytic activity. The kinetic studies showed that this enzyme had greater
hydrolyzing activity toward collagen and gelatin compared with casein. Based on
the ratio V max/K m, collagen is likely to be the best substrate among three
proteins. We found that this collagenase could digest small pieces of bovine skin
and tendon into a collagen solution. Interestingly, at pH 6.0-8.0, the soluble
collagen could form a collagen membrane, which is useful as a wound-healing
biomaterial.

DOI: 10.1080/09168451.2020.1799748 
PMID: 32741269 

