
1. J Proteomics. 2020 Sep 15;227:103918. doi: 10.1016/j.jprot.2020.103918. Epub 2020
Jul 24.

Identification of Lysinibacillus sphaericus Binary toxin binding proteins in a
malarial mosquito cell line by proteomics: A novel approach towards improving
mosquito control.

Riaz MA(1), Adang MJ(2), Hua G(3), Rezende TMT(4), Rezende AM(4), Shen GM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, College of Agriculture, University of Sargodha,
Sargodha 40100, Pakistan; Department of Entomology, University of Georgia,
Athens, GA 30602-2603, United States.
(2)Department of Entomology, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602-2603, United
States; Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Georgia, 
Athens, GA 30602-2603, United States. Electronic address: adang@uga.edu.
(3)Department of Entomology, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602-2603, United
States.
(4)Department of Entomology, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602-2603, United
States; Instituto Aggeu Magalhaes-FIOCRUZ, Recife, PE 50740-465, Brazil.
(5)Department of Entomology, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602-2603, United
States; College of Plant Protection, Southwest University, Chongqing, China.

Bacterial insecticidal proteins, such as the Bin toxin from Lysinibacillus
sphaericus, could be used more extensively to control insecticide resistant
mosquitoes. This study was aimed at identification of mosquito cell proteins
binding Bin toxin. Results showed that purified toxin was toxic to Anopheles
gambiae larvae and Ag55 cultured cells. Clathrin heavy chain (an endocytosis
protein) and glycolytic enzymes such as pyruvate kinase, enolase and
dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase were identified as binders of Bin toxin. The
viability of Ag55 cells in the presence of endocytosis inhibitor, pitstop2, was
significantly decreased upon Bin treatment, while the inhibitor chlorpromazine
did not affect Bin toxicity. Bin toxin treatment decreased ATP production and
mitochondrial respiration in Ag55 cells, whereas non-mitochondrial oxygen
consumption significantly increased after Bin toxin treatment. These findings are
steps towards understanding how Bin toxin kills mosquitoes. SIGNIFICANCE:
Mosquitoes are vectors of pathogens causing human diseases such as dengue fever, 
yellow fever, zika virus and malaria. An insecticidal toxin from Lysinibacillus
sphaericus called Binary, or Bin, toxin could be used more extensively to control
insecticide resistant mosquitoes. Bin toxin enter cells in susceptible mosquitoes
and induces apoptosis or autophagy. In the current research, we used the malaria 
mosquito Anopheles gambiae Ag55 cell line as a model. A proteomic-based approach 
identified proteins that interact with Bin toxin. Interacting proteins include
clathrin heavy chain (endocytosis protein) and glycolysis enzymes such as
pyruvate kinase, enolase and dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase. In Ag55 cell
toxicity assays, an endocytosis inhibitor, pitstop2, increased Bin toxicity. Real
time assays with a Seahorse™ flux analyzer showed that Bin significantly affects 
mitochondrial respiration, a result consistent with cell death via apoptosis or
autophagy. These research findings add insights into how an unusual binary
protein exploits cellular machinery to kill mosquitoes.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jprot.2020.103918 
PMID: 32712372 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare they have no conflict of interest.

