
1. J Microbiol. 2020 Apr;58(4):288-296. doi: 10.1007/s12275-020-9580-y. Epub 2020
Feb 27.

Optimization of bacterial sporulation using economic nutrient for self-healing
concrete.

Ryu Y(1), Lee KE(2), Cha IT(2), Park W(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Environmental Microbiology, Department of
Environmental Sciences and Ecological Engineering, Korea University, Seoul,
02841, Republic of Korea.
(2)National Institute of Biological Resources, Incheon, 22689, Republic of Korea.
(3)Laboratory of Molecular Environmental Microbiology, Department of
Environmental Sciences and Ecological Engineering, Korea University, Seoul,
02841, Republic of Korea. wpark@korea.ac.kr.

The use of heat- and alkali-resistant bacteria is essential for the biological
repair of damaged concrete. Lysinibacillus boronitolerans YS11 was isolated from 
the rhizosphere of Miscanthus sacchariflorus. The increased pH in the urea-minus 
condition during the growth of the YS11 strain promoted calcium carbonate (CaCO3)
formation. To identify the optimum medium that promoted the growth of the YS11
strain, a Plackett-Burman design was conducted for the screening process.
Consequently, malt powder, rice bran, (NH4)2SO4, and corn syrup were chosen to
enhance YS11 growth. The optimization of these four useful factors was carried
out using a central composite design. To obtain higher survivability in mortar,
the sporulation process is essential, and additional factors such as Mn2+, Fe2+, 
and Ca2+ were found to contribute to sporulation. A mixture of L. boronitolerans 
YS11 spore powder, cement, paste, sand, yeast extract, calcium lactate, and water
showed a healing effect on a 0.3 mm mortar crack in 7 days. Furthermore, calcium 
carbonate precipitation was observed over the crack surface. Thus, we confirmed
that mortar treated with YS11 spore powder was effective in healing micro-cracks 
in concrete.

DOI: 10.1007/s12275-020-9580-y 
PMID: 32103443 

