
1. Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces. 2020 Jun;190:110950. doi:
10.1016/j.colsurfb.2020.110950. Epub 2020 Mar 5.

Interaction of curium(III) with surface-layer proteins from Lysinibacillus
sphaericus JG-A12.

Moll H(1), Lehmann F(2), Raff J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf, Institute of Resource Ecology, Bautzner 
Landstraße 400, 01328 Dresden, Germany. Electronic address: h.moll@hzdr.de.
(2)Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf, Institute of Resource Ecology, Bautzner 
Landstraße 400, 01328 Dresden, Germany.

Trivalent actinides such as Cm(III) are able to occupy natural Ca(II) binding
sites in biological systems. For this investigation, we studied the formation of 
aqueous Cm(III) complexes with S-layer proteins by time-resolved laser-induced
fluorescence spectroscopy (TRLFS). S-layer proteins serve as protective
biointerfaces in bacteria and archaea against the surrounding solution.
Experimental assays were performed at a fixed total concentration of Cm(III)
(0.88 μM) using an S-layer protein (5 g/L / 39.6 μM) at varying pH levels
(2.0-9.0), as well as several types of S-layer proteins of L. sphaericus JG-A12. 
Based on resulting luminescence spectra and lifetime data, specific and
unspecific binding sites could be distinguished. Notably, specific Cm(III)
binding to S-layer proteins was confirmed by the appearance of a sharp emission
band at 602.5 nm, combined with a long lifetime of 310 μs. The high affinity of
these specific binding sites was also verified using competing EDTA, wherein only
a high EDTA concentration (40 μM) could efficiently remove Cm(III) from S-layer
proteins.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.colsurfb.2020.110950 
PMID: 32172166 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

