
1. Clin Oral Investig. 2020 Jun;24(6):2099-2108. doi: 10.1007/s00784-019-03075-9.
Epub 2020 May 6.

Identification of microorganisms in irreversible pulpitis and primary endodontic 
infections with respect to clinical and radiographic findings.

Zargar N(1), Ashraf H(1), Marashi SMA(2), Sabeti M(3), Aziz A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endodontics, School of Dentistry, Shahid Beheshti University of 
Medical Sciences, Daneshjoo Blv., Daneshgah Square, Chamran Highway, Tehran,
1983963113, Iran.
(2)Medical Microbiology Research Center, Qazvin University of Medical Sciences,
Qazvin, Iran.
(3)UCSF School of Dentistry, 707 Parnassus Ave. Room-D 3226, San Francisco, CA,
94143-0758, USA.
(4)School of Dentistry, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Daneshjoo
Blv., Evin Avenue, Chamran Highway, Tehran, 1983963113, Iran.
alireza_az91@yahoo.coms.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the composition of microbiota
of irreversible pulpitis and primary endodontic infections with respect to
clinical and radiographic findings by performing cultures and 16s rDNA sequencing
in Iranian patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In this prospective cross-sectional study, samples were
collected from 41 root canals for 4 main groups of patients. Bacterial
identification was performed by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and 16s rDNA 
sequencing of aerobic and anaerobic cultivable colonies taken from patients'
culture plates. Additionally, the presence of 13 bacterial species and 3
nonbacterial species was also explored using PCR and species-specific primers.
RESULTS: Sixteen microbial species, 1 fungus (Candida albicans), and 1 virus
(Herpes simplex virus) were discovered and isolated. Species with the highest
prevalence were Dialister invisus (68.3%), Porphyromonas gingivalis (58.8%),
Streptococcus salivarius (58.5%), and Treponema denticola (56.1%). Lysinibacillus
fusiformis (19.1%) was detected in the root canals for the first time. Candida
albicans was seen in 11 cases (26.8%). Herpes simplex virus (HSV) was seen in 4
patients (9.8%).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that Gram-negative anaerobic oral bacteria are
the majority of the microbes in primary endodontic infections. Various
combinations of bacterial species were related to different clinical and
radiographic conditions. Lysinibacillus fusiformis was detected for the first
time in primary endodontic infections.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The results of this investigation might help clinicians
choose to identify suspected endodontic pathogens in the etiology of each form of
pulpal and periradicular diseases to determine the best therapeutic measures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00784-019-03075-9 
PMID: 32377864 

