
1. J Biomol Struct Dyn. 2020 Jun 30:1-10. doi: 10.1080/07391102.2020.1784792. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Computational analysis identifies druggable mutations in human rBAT mediated
Cystinuria.

Pandey B(1), Aarthy M(2), Sharma M(1), Singh SK(2), Kumar V(3).

Author information: 
(1)Radiation Biology & Health Sciences Division, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre,
Mumbai, India.
(2)Computer-aided drug design Lab, Department of Bioinformatics, Alagappa
University, Karaikudi, India.
(3)Homi Bhabha National Institute, Mumbai, India.

Culex quinquefasciatus Cqm1 protein acts as the receptor for Lysinibacillus
sphaericus mosquito-larvicidal binary (BinAB) toxin that is used worldwide for
mosquito control. We found amino acid transporter protein, rBAT, as
phylogenetically closest Cqm1 homolog in humans. The present study reveals large 
evolutionary distance between Cqm1 and rBAT, and rBAT ectodomain lacks the
sequence motif which serves as binding-site for the BinAB toxin. Thus, BinAB
toxin can be expected to remain safe for humans. rBAT (heavy subunit; SLC3A1) and
catalytic b0,+AT (light subunit; SLC7A9), linked by single disulfide bond,
mediate renal reabsorption of cystine and dibasic amino acids in Na+ independent 
manner. Mutations in rBAT cause type I Cystinuria disease which shows global
prevalence, and rBAT can be thought as an important pharmacological target.
However, 3D structures of rBAT and b0,+AT, the two components of b0,+ heteromeric
amino acid transporter systems, are not available. We constructed a reliable
homology model of rBAT using Cqm1 coordinates and that of transmembrane b0,+AT
subunit using LAT1 coordinates. Mapping of pathogenic mutations onto rBAT
ectodomain revealed their scattered distribution throughout the rBAT protein.
Further, our computational simulations-based scoring of several known deleterious
mutations of rBAT revealed that mutations those do not compromise the protein
fold and stability, are localized on the same face of the molecule. These
residues are expected to interact with the b0,+AT transporter. The present study 
thus identifies druggable sites on rBAT that could be targeted for the treatment 
of type I Cystinuria.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2020.1784792 
PMID: 32602810 

