
1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2020 Apr 1;192:110250. doi: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.110250.
Epub 2020 Feb 3.

Transcriptome profiling reveals the molecular processes for survival of
Lysinibacillus fusiformis strain 15-4 in petroleum environments.

Li SW(1), Huang YX(2), Liu MY(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Environmental and Municipal Engineering, Lanzhou Jiaotong
University, 730070, PR China. Electronic address: lishweng@mail.lzjtu.cn.
(2)School of Environmental and Municipal Engineering, Lanzhou Jiaotong
University, 730070, PR China.

A bacterial strain designated Lysinibacillus fusiformis 15-4 was isolated from
oil-free soil on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, which can grow well utilizing
petroleum hydrocarbons as a carbon source at a lower temperature. To deeply
characterize the molecular adaptations and metabolic processes of this strain
when grown in a petroleum-containing environment, transcriptome analysis was
performed. A total of 4664 genes and the expression of 3969 genes were observed
in strain 15-4. When the strain was grown in petroleum-containing medium, 2192
genes were significantly regulated, of which 1312 (60%) were upregulated and 880 
(40%) were downregulated. This strain degraded and adapted to petroleum via
modulation of diverse molecular processes, including improvements in transporter 
activity, oxidoreductase/dehydrogenase activity, two-component system/signal
transduction, transcriptional regulation, fatty acid catabolism, amino acid
metabolism, and environmental stress responses. Many strain-specific genes were
involved in the oxidation of hydrocarbon compounds, such as several luciferase
family alkane monooxygenase genes, flavin-utilizing monooxygenase family genes,
and flavoprotein-like family alkanesulfonate monooxygenase genes. Several cold
shock protein genes were also induced suggesting adaptation to cold environments 
and the potential for petroleum degradation at low temperatures. The results
obtained in this study may broaden our understanding of molecular adaptation of
bacteria to hydrocarbon-containing environments and may provide valuable data for
further study of L. fusiformis.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.110250 
PMID: 32028154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interests The authors
declare that they have no competing interests.

