
1. IUCrJ. 2020 Jan 25;7(Pt 2):166-172. doi: 10.1107/S2052252519017159. eCollection
2020 Mar 1.

Small-angle neutron scattering studies suggest the mechanism of BinAB protein
internalization.

Sharma M(1), Aswal VK(2), Kumar V(1), Chidambaram R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Protein Crystallography Section, Radiation Biology & Health Sciences Division,
Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai 400 085, India.
(2)Solid State Physics Division, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai 400 085,
India.
(3)Homi Bhabha Professor, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai 400 085, India.

Small-angle neutron scattering (SANS) is one of the most widely used
neutron-based approaches to study the solution structure of biological
macromolecular systems. The selective deuterium labelling of different protein
components of a complex provides a means to probe conformational changes in
multiprotein complexes. The Lysinibacillus sphaericus mosquito-larvicidal BinAB
proteins exert toxicity through interaction with the receptor Cqm1 protein;
however, the nature of the complex is not known. Rationally engineered deuterated
BinB (dBinB) protein from the L. sphaericus ISPC-8 species was synthesized using 
an Escherichia coli-based protein-expression system in M9 medium in D2O for
'contrast-matched' SANS experiments. SANS data were independently analysed by ab 
initio indirect Fourier transform-based modelling and using crystal structures.
These studies confirm the dimeric status of Cqm1 in 100% D2O with a longest
intramolecular vector (D max) of ∼94 Å and a radius of gyration (R g) of ∼31 Å.
Notably, BinB binds to Cqm1, forming a heterodimeric complex (D max of ∼129 Å and
R g of ∼40 Å) and alters its oligomeric status from a dimer to a monomer, as
confirmed by matched-out Cqm1-dBinB (D max of ∼70 Å and R g of ∼22 Å). The
present study thus provides the first insight into the events involved in the
internalization of larvicidal proteins, likely by raft-dependent endocytosis.

© Mahima Sharma et al. 2020.

DOI: 10.1107/S2052252519017159 
PMCID: PMC7055391
PMID: 32148845 

