
1. Biomed Res Int. 2020 Jan 22;2020:3707804. doi: 10.1155/2020/3707804. eCollection 
2020.

Statistical Experimental Design Optimization of Microbial Proteases Production
under Co-Culture Conditions for Chitin Recovery from Speckled Shrimp Metapenaeus 
monoceros By-Product.

Jabeur F(1), Mechri S(1), Kriaa M(2), Gharbi I(1), Bejaoui N(3), Sadok S(4),
Jaouadi B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Microbial Biotechnology and Engineering Enzymes (LMBEE), Centre 
of Biotechnology of Sfax (CBS), University of Sfax, Road of Sidi Mansour Km 6,
P.O. Box 1177, Sfax 3018, Tunisia.
(2)Laboratory of Microorganisms and Biomolecules (LMB), Centre of Biotechnology
of Sfax (CBS), University of Sfax, Road of Sidi Mansour Km 6, P.O. Box 1177, Sfax
3018, Tunisia.
(3)Institut National Agronomique de Tunis (INAT), Université de Carthage, 43
Avenue Charles Nicolle, 1082 Tunis Maharajène, Tunisia.
(4)Laboratory of Blue Biotechnology & Aquatic Bioproducts (B3Aqua), Institut
National des Sciences et Technologies de la Mer (INSTM), Annexe La Goulette Port 
de Pêche, La Goulette 2060, Tunisia.

This study was designed with the aim to produce microbial proteases in presence
of speckled shrimp by-product. For this reason, three strains belonging to
Bacillus genus, namely, Aeribacillus pallidus VP3, Lysinibacillus fusiformis
C250R, and Anoxybacillus kamchatkensis M1V were studied under co-culture
procedure. A Taguchi L27 experimental design was applied to optimize the
co-culture parameters. The experimental design was built with 9 factors
(by-product powder concentration, the pH of the medium, the temperature, the
sucrose concentration, the agitation speed, the inoculum sizes of VP3, M1V, and
C250R strains, and the culture volume) at three different levels. The obtained
results showed that a total protease activity of 8,182 U/mL could be achieved
after 24 h of incubation in presence of 20 g/L shrimp by-product and 10 g/L
sucrose, at an initial pH of 7, a 40°C temperature and absorbance, at 600 nm, of 
inoculum sizes of 0.1, 0.3, and 0.1 for VP3, M1V, and C250R strains,
respectively. The agitation was set at 200 rpm, and the final volume was 25 mL.
Taguchi's design allowed the identification of temperature, the inoculum size for
strain VP3, the inoculum size for strain M1V, and the final culture volume as the
most influencing variables. A Box-Behnken design with 27 experiments was carried 
out for the optimization of these four selected factors. Following such design,
the highest protease production reached was 11,300 U/mL. This yield was obtained 
in a final culture volume of 15 mL containing 20 g/L shrimp by-product powder and
10 g/L sucrose and inoculated with VP3, C250R, and M1V strains at 0.05, 0.1, and 
0.2, respectively. The flasks were incubated at 45°C for 24 h with shaking at
200 rpm. The efficiency of chitin extraction by co-cultivation was investigated
under the latter conditions. The chitin yield from shells by-product was 16.7%.
Fourier-Transform Infrared (FTIR) analysis of the obtained chitin displayed
characteristic profiles similar to that of the commercial α-chitin.

Copyright © 2020 Fadoua Jabeur et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/3707804 
PMCID: PMC6998744
PMID: 32090083 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

