
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Oct;103(10):8782-8790. doi: 10.3168/jds.2020-18591. Epub 2020
Aug 20.

Effect of milk bactofugation on the counts and diversity of thermoduric bacteria.

Ribeiro-Júnior JC(1), Tamanini R(2), Alfieri AA(2), Beloti V(2).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Science and Technology for the Dairy Production Chain
(INCT - Leite), Federal University of Tocantins, Araguaína, Tocantins, Brazil
77804-970. Electronic address: ribeirojuniorjc@gmail.com.
(2)National Institute of Science and Technology for the Dairy Production Chain
(INCT - Leite), Federal University of Tocantins, Araguaína, Tocantins, Brazil
77804-970.

The objective of this work was to determine the effect of milk bactofugation on
the counts and microbial diversity of mesophilic (MT), psychrotrophic (PT), and
thermophilic (TT) thermoduric bacteria and its potential as a technological
method to remove spoilage microorganisms resistant to pasteurization. Different
batches of raw milk from 69 dairy farms divided into sets in 3 bulk tanks (A, B, 
C) were evaluated at different times during the technological process. As the raw
milk was preheated (∼55°C) immediately before bactofugation (10,000 × g), the
effect of bactofugation was estimated by comparing the counts in raw, preheated, 
and bactofuged milk. This centrifugation was sufficient to reduce the isolation
of 88% of the MT in preheated milk. For PT, it was possible to verify a reduction
of 72.5% in batch C. The TT were not recovered at higher detection limits (<5
cfu/mL). For diversity, 310 isolates were identified using a molecular approach; 
15 species of contaminating thermoduric bacteria were identified from raw and
preheated milk, and only 6 species were recovered in bactofuged milk. Only MT
were recovered from the bactofuged milk, mainly the species Lysinibacillus
fusiformis (61.7%) and Bacillus licheniformis (12.3%). Both species are known to 
be endospore-forming psychrotrophs and have proteolytic or lipolytic activity.
The bactofugation of raw milk reduced the number of isolates of B. licheniformis,
Bacillus toyonensis, Micrococcus aloeverae, and Aestuariimicrobium kwangyangense 
by 33, 43, 86, and 92%, respectively, and reduced the isolates of Macrococcus
caseolyticus, Lysinibacillus varians, Carnobacterium divergens, Microbacterium
hominis, Kocuria indica, Micrococcus yunnanensis, Gordonia paraffinivorans,
Bacillus invictae, and Kocuria kristinae to undetectable levels. The results of
this study indicate that bactofugation can be applied by the dairy industry to
reduce pasteurization-resistant microorganisms in combination with prophylactic
measures to prevent the contamination of raw milk by spores and vegetative forms 
of bacteria.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-18591 
PMID: 32828509 

