
1. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2019 Nov;26(32):32815-32823. doi:
10.1007/s11356-019-06394-2. Epub 2019 Sep 9.

Phytoextraction of iron from contaminated soils by inoculation of iron-tolerant
plant growth-promoting bacteria in Brassica juncea L. Czern.

Jinal HN(1), Gopi K(1), Prittesh P(1), Kartik VP(2), Amaresan N(3).

Author information: 
(1)C. G. Bhakta Institute of Biotechnology, Uka Tarsadia University, Maliba
Campus, Bardoli, Surat, Gujarat, 394 350, India.
(2)Department of Biosciences, Veer Narmad South Gujarat University, Udhna
Magdalla Road, Surat, Gujarat, 395 007, India.
(3)C. G. Bhakta Institute of Biotechnology, Uka Tarsadia University, Maliba
Campus, Bardoli, Surat, Gujarat, 394 350, India. na.amaresan@gmail.com.

Iron (Fe) is one of the essential micronutrients for all living organisms.
Despite its abundance in most of the contaminated soil, it is usually in
unavailable forms. The unavailable form of Fe could be mobilized to plants by the
use of microorganisms. This study was carried out to show that the
Fe-contaminated field soils could be used to accumulate Fe in the plant parts
using bacterial inoculation. For this, from a set of bacterial isolates, four
Fe-tolerant bacteria were selected and identified based on 16S rRNA gene
sequencing. The Fe-tolerant bacteria belonged to the genus Bacillus toyonensis
(MG430287), Rhodococcus hoagii (MG432495), Lysinibacillus mangiferihumi
(MG432492), and Lysinibacillus fusiformis (MG430290). Screening of plant
growth-promoting properties of these isolates revealed that all isolates were
able to produce indole acetic acid (50.0-84.0 Î¼g/ml), siderophore, and potassium 
solubilization (except R. hoagii). Pot assay using Fe-contaminated ((8.07-8.35 g 
kg-1) soils River Directorate of India) revealed that Fe-tolerant bacteria
enhanced the growth of Brassica juncea and its biomass. Besides the improved
plant growth, the inoculated plants also showed an overall percentage increase in
the uptake of iron in root, stem, and leaf (57.91-128.31%) compared with
uninoculated plants. In addition to enhanced plant growth attributes, the
isolates also improved the total chlorophyll content and antioxidant properties
such as total phenol, proline, and ascorbic acid oxidase. Thus, the results
clearly indicated that these isolates could be used as a bioinoculant to improve 
the sequestration of Fe from the contaminated soils and alleviation of Fe stress 
in plants.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-019-06394-2 
PMID: 31502049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

