
1. PeerJ. 2020 Jun 16;8:e9376. doi: 10.7717/peerj.9376. eCollection 2020.

Diversity and spoilage potential of microbial communities associated with grape
sour rot in eastern coastal areas of China.

Gao H(#)(1)(2), Yin X(#)(1), Jiang X(1), Shi H(1), Yang Y(1), Wang C(1), Dai
X(1)(2), Chen Y(1), Wu X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Shandong Academy of Grape, Jinan, China.
(2)Shandong Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Institute of Plant Protection,
Jinan, China.
(#)Contributed equally

As a polymicrobial disease, sour rot decreases grape berry yield and wine
quality. The diversity of microbial communities in sour rot-affected grapes
depends on the cultivation site, but the microbes responsible for this disease in
eastern coastal China, has not been reported. To identify the microbes that cause
sour grape rot in this important grape-producing region, the diversity and
abundance of bacteria and fungi were assessed by metagenomic analysis and
cultivation-dependent techniques. A total of 15 bacteria and 10 fungi were
isolated from sour rot-affected grapes. High-throughput sequencing of
PCR-amplicons generated from diseased grapes revealed 1343 OTUs of bacteria and
1038 OTUs of fungi. Proteobacteria and Firmicutes were dominant phyla among the
19 bacterial phyla identified. Ascomycota was the dominant fungal phylum and the 
fungi Issatchenkia terricola, Colletotrichum viniferum, Hanseniaspora vineae,
Saprochaete gigas, and Candida diversa represented the vast majority ofmicrobial 
species associated with sour rot-affected grapes. An in vitro spoilage assay
confirmed that four of the isolated bacteria strains (two Cronobacter species,
Serratia marcescens and Lysinibacillus fusiformis) and five of the isolated fungi
strains (three Aspergillus species, Alternaria tenuissima, and Fusarium
proliferatum) spoiled grapes. These microorganisms, which appear responsible for 
spoiling grapes in eastern China, appear closely related to microbes that cause
this plant disease around the world.

Â©2020 Gao et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.9376 
PMCID: PMC7315622
PMID: 32607286 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing
interests.

