
1. J Med Entomol. 2020 Sep 11. pii: tjaa182. doi: 10.1093/jme/tjaa182. [Epub ahead
of print]

Cross Resistance in S-Methoprene-Resistant Culex quinquefasciatus (Diptera:
Culicidae).

Su T(1), Thieme J(1), Cummings R(2), Cheng ML(1), Brown MQ(1).

Author information: 
(1)West Valley Mosquito and Vector Control District, Ontario, CA.
(2)Orange County Mosquito and Vector Control District, Garden Grove, CA.

The juvenile hormone analog S-methoprene is the only synthetic biopesticide that 
is registered with the United States Environmental Protection Agency to control
arthropods of economic importance in public health, livestock, pets, urban, and
stored products. The high activity, relative target specificity, and benign
environmental profile of S-methoprene have been well documented. While the risk
of resistance in mosquitoes to S-methoprene is generally low, there is a lack of 
information regarding cross resistance in S-methoprene-resistant mosquitoes to
other pesticides. In this paper, a population of the southern house mosquito
Culex quinquefasciatus Say from southern California acquired low levels of
resistance to S-methoprene in the field, where the resistance ratios ranged 7.0- 
to 8.8-fold as compared with a laboratory reference colony. After 30 generations 
of laboratory selections by S-methoprene when resistance was elevated to 57.4- to
168.3-fold relative to an unselected population, various levels of cross
resistance to other commonly used pesticides were revealed in the selected
population. Cross resistance to the microbial mosquito larvicide Lysinibacillus
sphaericus (Meyer & Neide) (Bacillales: Bacillaceae) was the most profound,
amounting to 77.50- to 220.50-fold. The mechanism and potential management
tactics toward cross resistance are discussed to preserve the unique value of
this synthetic biopesticide.

Â© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of
Entomological Society of America.All rights reserved. For permissions, please
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jme/tjaa182 
PMID: 32914856 

