
1. Nanomaterials (Basel). 2020 Feb 26;10(3). pii: E408. doi: 10.3390/nano10030408.

Effective Gold Biosorption by Electrospun and Electrosprayed Bio-composites with 
Immobilized Lysinibacillus sphaericus CBAM5.

Páez-Vélez C(1), Castro-Mayorga JL(2), Dussán J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiological Research Center (CIMIC), Department of Biological Sciences,
Universidad de Los Andes, Bogotá 111711, Colombia.
(2)Nanobiotechnology and applied microbiology (NANOBIOT), Department of
Biological Sciences, Universidad de Los Andes, Bogotá 111711, Colombia.

Electro-hydrodynamic processing, comprising electrospinning and electrospraying
techniques, is a novel technology used in the production of nano- and
sub-micro-scale materials with specific properties suitable for environmental
remediation processes. Polycaprolactone (PCL) micro-fibrous mats and alginate
microcapsules were produced using electrospinning and electrospraying techniques 
respectively, and Lysinibacillus sphaericus CBAM5, a bacterium capable of metal
removal by adsorption and accumulation inside the cell, was immobilized in these 
matrices. The polymeric structure was able to protect and maintain cell viability
and the bio-composite materials were used to capture gold from synthetic water
samples. The micro-fibrous membranes with immobilized bacteria were able to
remove 93% of the gold after 120 h of inclusion in the aqueous medium. Using a
filtration system, an efficiency of 64% was obtained for the removal of the
precious metal after 10 cycles of filtration (2 h of exposure to the gold
solution). In contrast, the microencapsulated L. sphaericus CBAM5 captured 64% of
the gold after 4 h of the assay. Thus, both micro-structured matrices were
suitable for the immobilization and protection of L. sphaericus CBAM5 and they
showed high efficiencies of gold biosorption. Hence, these bio-composite
materials could be used to concentrate gold from industrial wastewaters.

DOI: 10.3390/nano10030408 
PMCID: PMC7152855
PMID: 32110870 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to
publish the results.

