
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Jul;77(7):1217-1222. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-01907-6. Epub
2020 Feb 27.

The Cry48Aa N-terminal Domain is Responsible for Cry48Aa-Cry49Aa Interaction in
Lysinibacillus sphaericus Toxin.

Guo Q(1), Gao Y(2), Xing C(3), Ding L(2), Dai X(2), Xie Q(2), Tan X(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Gannan Normal University, Shida South Road 1,
Ganzhou, 341000, Jiangxi, People's Republic of China. qingyun612@163.com.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Gannan Normal University, Shida South Road 1,
Ganzhou, 341000, Jiangxi, People's Republic of China.
(3)School of Information Engineering, Gannan Medical University, Ganzhou, 341000,
Jiangxi, People's Republic of China.

The Cry48Aa/Cry49Aa binary toxin from Lysinibacillus sphaericus is composed of a 
three-domain Cry-like toxin (Cry48Aa) and a binary-like protein (Cry49Aa) that
work together to kill Culex quinquefasciatus mosquito larvae through a novel
interaction between its two components. The aim of this study was to identify the
functional regions of Cry48Aa that were involved in the interaction with Cry49Aa.
Eight Cry48Aa truncated fragments were constructed from both N- and C-termini and
expressed in Escherichia coli. Only the individual or combined N69K truncated
fragment, a Cry48Aa N-terminal derivative consisting of three domains, showed
larvicidal activity against C. quinquefasciatus larvae, while the other fragments
exhibited significant loss of biological activity. Far-Western dot blot analysis 
showed that Cry48Aa N-terminal regions had the ability to bind to Cry49Aa
protein. These results demonstrate that the N-terminal domain of Cry48Aa plays a 
crucial role in responsible for the full virulence to mosquito larvae and the
interaction with Cry49Aa as a binary toxin.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-01907-6 
PMID: 32107628 

