
1. Front Microbiol. 2019 Nov 5;10:2526. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02526. eCollection
2019.

Phenotypic and Genotypic Identification of Bacteria Isolated From Traditionally
Prepared Dry Starters of the Eastern Himalayas.

Pradhan P(1), Tamang JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)DAICENTRE (DBT-AIST International Centre for Translational and Environmental
Research) and Bioinformatics Centre, Department of Microbiology, School of Life
Sciences, Sikkim University, Gangtok, India.

Preparation of dry starters for alcohol production is an age-old traditional
technology in the Eastern Himalayan regions of east Nepal, the Darjeeling hills, 
Sikkim, and Arunachal Pradesh in India, and Bhutan. We studied the bacterial
diversity in 35 samples of traditionally prepared dry starters, represented by
marcha of Nepal, Sikkim, the Darjeeling hills, and Bhutan, phab of Bhutan, and
paa, pee, and phut of Arunachal Pradesh, respectively. Populations of bacteria in
these starters were 105 to 108 cfu/g. A total of 201 bacterial strains were
isolated from starter samples, phenotypically characterized, and their identities
confirmed by the 16S rRNA sanger sequencing method. The dominant phylum was
Firmicutes (85%), followed by Proteobacteria (9%), and Actinobacteria (6%).
Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) (59%) formed the most abundant group, followed by
non-LAB (32%) and Gram-negative bacteria (9%). Based on the 16S rRNA gene
sequencing result, we identified LAB: Enterococcus durans, E. faecium, E.
fecalis, E. hirae, E. lactis, Pediococcus acidilactici, P. pentosaceus,
Lactobacillus plantarum subsp. plantarum, Lb. pentosus, Leuconostoc
mesenteroides, and Weissella cibaria; non-LAB: Bacillus subtilis subsp.
inaquosorum, B. circulans, B. albus, B. cereus, B. nakamurai, B. nitratireducens,
B. pseudomycoides, B. zhangzhouensis, Kocuria rosea, Staphylococcus hominis
subsp. hominis, S. warneri, S. gallinarum, S. sciuri, Lysinibacillus
boronitolerans, Brevibacterium frigoritolerans, and Micrococcus yunnanensis;
Gram-negative bacteria: Pseudomonas putida, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter
hormaechei subsp. xiangfangensis, E. hormaechei subsp. steigerwaltii, and
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia. We characterized diversity indexes of the bacterial
community present in traditionally prepared dry starters. This is the first
report on the bacterial diversity of traditionally dry starters of the Eastern
Himalayas by sanger sequencing.

Copyright Â© 2019 Pradhan and Tamang.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02526 
PMCID: PMC6848222
PMID: 31749787 

