
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Aug;70(8):4838-4842. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004328.
Epub 2020 Jul 17.

Genome-based reclassification of Paenibacillus panacisoli DSM 21345T as
Paenibacillus massiliensis subsp. panacisoli subsp. nov. and description of
Paenibacillus massiliensis subsp. massiliensis subsp. nov.

Tonial F(1), Guella F(2), Passaglia LMP(2), Sant'Anna FH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Patologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade de
Passo Fundo, Passo Fundo, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Genética, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade Federal do
Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.

Bacteria of the genus Paenibacillus are relevant to humans, animals and plants.
The species Paenibacillus massiliensis and Paenibacillus panacisoli are
Gram-stain-positive and endospore-forming bacilli isolated from a blood culture
of a leukemia patient and from soil of a ginseng field, respectively. Comparative
analyses of their 16S rRNA genes revealed that the two Paenibacillus species
could be synonyms (99.3% sequence identity). In the present study we performed
different genomic analyses in order to evaluate the phylogenetic relationship of 
these micro-organisms. Paenibacillus massiliensis DSM 16942T and P. panacisoli
DSM 21345T presented a difference in their G+C content lower than 1 mol%, overall
genome relatedness index values higher than the species circumscription
thresholds (average nucleotide identity, 95.57 %; genome-wide ANI, =96.51 %; and 
orthologous ANI, 96.25 %), and a monophyletic grouping pattern in the phylogenies
of the 16S rRNA gene and the proteome core. Considering that these strains
present differential biochemical capabilities and that their computed digital
DNA-DNA hybridization value is lower than the cut-off for bacterial subspecies
circumscription, we suggest that each of them form different subspecies of P.
massiliensis, Paenibacillus massiliensis subsp. panacisoli subsp. nov. (type
strain DSM 21345T) and Paenibacillus massiliensis subsp. massiliensis subsp. nov.
(type strain DSM 16942T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004328 
PMID: 32692645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

