
1. J Reprod Immunol. 2020 Apr;138:103085. doi: 10.1016/j.jri.2020.103085. Epub 2020 
Jan 22.

Vaginal dysbiosis associated-bacteria Megasphaera elsdenii and Prevotella
timonensis induce immune activation via dendritic cells.

van Teijlingen NH(1), Helgers LC(1), Zijlstra-Willems EM(1), van Hamme JL(1),
Ribeiro CMS(1), Strijbis K(2), Geijtenbeek TBH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, Department of Experimental Immunology,
Amsterdam Institute for Infection & Immunity, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.
(2)Utrecht University, Department of Infectious Diseases and Immunology, Utrecht,
The Netherlands.
(3)Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, Department of Experimental Immunology,
Amsterdam Institute for Infection & Immunity, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. Electronic address: t.b.geijtenbeek@amsterdamumc.nl.

Dysbiosis of the vaginal microbiome as a result of overgrowth of anaerobic
bacteria leads to bacterial vaginosis (BV) which is associated with increased
inflammation in the genital mucosa. Moreover, BV increases susceptibility to
sexual transmitted infections (STIs) and is associated with adverse pregnancy
outcomes. It remains unclear how specific vaginal aerobic and anaerobic bacteria 
affect health and disease. We selected different vaginal bacteria ranging from
true commensals to species associated with dysbiosis and investigated their
effects on activation of dendritic cells (DCs). Commensal Lactobacilli crispatus 
did not induce DC maturation nor led to production of pro-inflammatory cytokines.
In contrast, BV-associated bacteria Megasphaera elsdenii and Prevotella
timonensis induced DC maturation and increased levels of pro-inflammatory
cytokines. Notably, DCs stimulated with Prevotella timonensis suppressed Th2
responses and induced Th1 skewing, typically associated with preterm birth. In
contrast, Lactobacillus crispatus and Megasphaera elsdenii did not affect Th cell
polarization. These results strongly indicate that the interaction of vaginal
bacteria with mucosal DCs determines mucosal inflammation and we have identified 
the anaerobic bacterium Prevotella timonensis as a strong inducer of inflammatory
responses. Specifically targeting these inflammation-inducing bacteria might be a
therapeutic strategy to prevent BV and associated risks in STI susceptibility and
preterm birth.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jri.2020.103085 
PMID: 32004804 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest We wish to
confirm that there are no known conflicts of interest associated with this
publication and there has been no significant financial support for this work
that could have influenced its outcome.

