
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Aug;77(8):1945-1954. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02004-4. Epub
2020 Apr 30.

Proposal for Unification of the Genus Metakosakonia and the Genus Phytobacter to 
a Single Genus Phytobacter and Reclassification of Metakosakonia massiliensis as 
Phytobacter massiliensis comb. nov.

Ma Y(1), Yao R(1), Li Y(1), Wu X(1), Li S(1), An Q(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ministry of Agriculture Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology of Crop Pathogens 
and Insects, Zhejiang Province Key Laboratory of Biology of Crop Pathogens and
Insects, Institute of Biotechnology, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058,
China.
(2)Ministry of Agriculture Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology of Crop Pathogens 
and Insects, Zhejiang Province Key Laboratory of Biology of Crop Pathogens and
Insects, Institute of Biotechnology, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058,
China. an@zju.edu.cn.

The genus Metakosakonia, as the closest phylogenetic neighbor of the genus
Kosakonia within the family Enterobacteriaceae, when proposed in 2017, consisted 
of M. massiliensis JC163T and Metakosakonia spp. strains CAV1151 and GT-16. The
strain CAV1151 was later classified into a novel species Phytobacter ursingii.
Here, we show that the strain GT-16 shares a digital DNA-DNA hybridization (DDH) 
similarity of 91.0% with P. diazotrophicus DSM 17806 T and thus also belongs to
P. diazotrophicus. M. massiliensis and the strains within the genus Phytobacter
formed a monophyletic cluster on a phylogenomic tree based on the core proteins
of the family Enterobacteriaceae and on a phylogenetic tree based on the 16S rRNA
genes. M. massiliensis and the genus Phytobacter share average amino acid
identities of 86.80‒87.41% above the threshold (86%) for genus delimitation
within the family Enterobacteriaceae. Moreover, they share conserved signature
indels in the intracellular growth protein IgaA and the outer membrane assembly
protein AsmA. Therefore, we propose to unite the genus Metakosakonia and the
genus Phytobacter to a single genus. Because the genus Phytobacter was validly
published earlier in 2017 than the genus Metakosakonia in 2017, the genus name
Phytobacter has priority over Metakosakonia. We propose to unite the two genera
under the name Phytobacter with the type species P. diazotrophicus and reclassify
M. massiliensis as P. massiliensis comb. nov. In addition, the analyses of genome
relatedness and phylogenomic relationship identified one potential novel species 
within the genus Phytobacter and three potential novel species within the genus
Kosakonia.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02004-4 
PMID: 32350604 

