
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 27;8(10). pii: E1483. doi:
10.3390/microorganisms8101483.

Different Bacteroides Species Colonise Human and Chicken Intestinal Tract.

Kollarcikova M(1), Faldynova M(1), Matiasovicova J(1), Jahodarova E(1), Kubasova 
T(1), Seidlerova Z(1), Babak V(1), Videnska P(2), Cizek A(3), Rychlik I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Research Institute, 62100 Brno, Czech Republic.
(2)Faculty of Science, Masaryk's University, 62500 Brno, Czech Republic.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases and Microbiology, Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, University of Veterinary and Pharmaceutical Sciences, 61242 Brno, Czech
Republic.

Bacteroidaceae are common gut microbiota members in all warm-blooded animals.
However, if Bacteroidaceae are to be used as probiotics, the species selected for
different hosts should reflect the natural distribution. In this study, we
therefore evaluated host adaptation of bacterial species belonging to the family 
Bacteroidaceae. B. dorei, B. uniformis, B. xylanisolvens, B. ovatus, B. clarus,
B. thetaiotaomicron and B. vulgatus represented human-adapted species while B.
gallinaceum, B. caecigallinarum, B. mediterraneensis, B. caecicola, M.
massiliensis, B. plebeius and B. coprocola were commonly detected in chicken but 
not human gut microbiota. There were 29 genes which were present in all
human-adapted Bacteroides but absent from the genomes of all chicken isolates,
and these included genes required for the pentose cycle and glutamate or
histidine metabolism. These genes were expressed during an in vitro competitive
assay, in which human-adapted Bacteroides species overgrew the chicken-adapted
isolates. Not a single gene specific for the chicken-adapted species was found.
Instead, chicken-adapted species exhibited signs of frequent horizontal gene
transfer, of KUP, linA and sugE genes in particular. The differences in host
adaptation should be considered when the new generation of probiotics for humans 
or chickens is designed.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8101483 
PMID: 32992519 

