
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Apr 9;8(4). pii: E539. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8040539.

Genome-Scale Metabolic Network Reconstruction and In Silico Analysis of Hexanoic 
acid Producing Megasphaera elsdenii.

Lee NR(1)(2), Lee CH(1), Lee DY(3), Park JB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Konkuk University, Seoul 05029,
Korea.
(2)Department of Food Science and Engineering, Ewha Womans University, Seoul
03760, Korea.
(3)School of Chemical Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University, 2066 Seobu-ro,
Jangan-gu, Suwon, Gyeonggi-do 16419, Korea.

Hexanoic acid and its derivatives have been recently recognized as value-added
materials and can be synthesized by several microbes. Of them, Megasphaera
elsdenii has been considered as an interesting hexanoic acid producer because of 
its capability to utilize a variety of carbons sources. However, the cellular
metabolism and physiology of M. elsdenii still remain uncharacterized. Therefore,
in order to better understand hexanoic acid synthetic metabolism in M. elsdenii, 
we newly reconstructed its genome-scale metabolic model, iME375, which accounts
for 375 genes, 521 reactions, and 443 metabolites. A constraint-based analysis
was then employed to evaluate cell growth under various conditions. Subsequently,
a flux ratio analysis was conducted to understand the mechanism of bifurcated
hexanoic acid synthetic pathways, including the typical fatty acid synthetic
pathway via acetyl-CoA and the TCA cycle in a counterclockwise direction through 
succinate. The resultant metabolic states showed that the highest hexanoic acid
production could be achieved when the balanced fractional contribution via
acetyl-CoA and succinate in reductive TCA cycle was formed in various cell growth
rates. The highest hexanoic acid production was maintained in the most perturbed 
flux ratio, as phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (pck) enables the bifurcated
pathway to form consistent fluxes. Finally, organic acid consuming simulations
suggested that succinate can increase both biomass formation and hexanoic acid
production.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8040539 
PMCID: PMC7232489
PMID: 32283671 

