
1. Science. 2020 Aug 28;369(6507). pii: eabb1214. doi: 10.1126/science.abb1214.

A heterogeneous microbial consortium producing short-chain fatty acids from
lignocellulose.

Shahab RL(1)(2), Brethauer S(2), Davey MP(3), Smith AG(3), Vignolini S(4),
Luterbacher JS(1), Studer MH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sustainable and Catalytic Processing, Institute of Chemical
Sciences and Engineering, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), 1015
Lausanne, Switzerland.
(2)Laboratory of Biofuels and Biochemicals, School of Agricultural, Forest and
Food Sciences, Bern University of Applied Sciences (BFH), CH-3052 Zollikofen,
Switzerland.
(3)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EA, UK.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 1EW, UK.
(5)Laboratory of Biofuels and Biochemicals, School of Agricultural, Forest and
Food Sciences, Bern University of Applied Sciences (BFH), CH-3052 Zollikofen,
Switzerland. michael.studer1@bfh.ch.

Microbial consortia are a promising alternative to monocultures of genetically
modified microorganisms for complex biotransformations. We developed a versatile 
consortium-based strategy for the direct conversion of lignocellulose to
short-chain fatty acids, which included the funneling of the lignocellulosic
carbohydrates to lactate as a central intermediate in engineered food chains. A
spatial niche enabled in situ cellulolytic enzyme production by an aerobic fungus
next to facultative anaerobic lactic acid bacteria and the product-forming
anaerobes. Clostridium tyrobutyricum, Veillonella criceti, or Megasphaera
elsdenii were integrated into the lactate platform to produce 196 kilograms of
butyric acid per metric ton of beechwood. The lactate platform demonstrates the
benefits of mixed cultures, such as their modularity and their ability to convert
complex substrates into valuable biochemicals.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors, some rights reserved; exclusive licensee American
Association for the Advancement of Science. No claim to original U.S. Government 
Works.

DOI: 10.1126/science.abb1214 
PMID: 32855308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

