
1. Transl Anim Sci. 2020 Mar 17;4(2):txaa031. doi: 10.1093/tas/txaa031. eCollection 
2020 Apr.

Influence of Megasphaera elsdenii and feeding strategies on feedlot performance, 
compositional growth, and carcass parameters of early weaned, beef calves.

DeClerck JC(1)(1), Wade ZE(1), Reeves NR(1), Miller MF(1), Johnson BJ(1),
Ducharme GA(2), Rathmann RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal and Food Sciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX.
(2)MS Biotec, Inc., Wamego, KS.

Simmental-Angus calves [n = 135; 72 steers and 63 heifers; body weight (BW) =
212.4 kg ± 36.1] were early weaned (~5 mo) to evaluate multiple feeding regimens 
(conventional vs. aggressive energy diets ± Megasphaera elsdenii NCIMB 41125 (M. 
elsdenii culture (MEC); Lactipro Advance; MS Biotec Inc., Wamego, KS) in order to
elucidate the optimal development strategy. Objectives were measured by tracking 
the effects of caloric density and oral drenching of growing phase performance
and subsequent carcass traits. The 72-d experiment featured three groups: 1)
control (CON), fed exclusively a 35% roughage diet; 2) aggressive (AGR), fed a
blend of a 10% and 35% roughage diets; 3) MEC, fed the same diet as AGR and
drenched with 50 mL of M. elsdenii NCIMB 41125 on day 1. A subset of calves (n = 
45) was equipped with wireless rumination tags (Allflex Flex Tag; SCR Engineers, 
Ltd; Netanya, Israel), which logged daily rumination and general activity.
Skeletal growth variables were assessed by measuring wither and hip height
pretrial and posttrial. Ultrasonography provided additional resolution concerning
growing phase compositional gain, which was later verified by carcass data
collection. Data were analyzed as a nested analysis of variance with BW and
gender serving as blocking factors. The increased caloric density of the diets
administered to MEC and AGR calves resulted in greater average daily gain and
gain:feed values compared with CON even during the first 21 d of diet acclimation
(P ≤ 0.05). Additional fiber concentration of CON diets led to increased
rumination times in 9 of the 10 wk of trial (P ≤ 0.10). No differences amongst
treatments were detected for skeletal variables or ultrasound 12th rib fat.
Cattle fed CON diets posted 3.4% inferior BW at the end of the growing period
trial and a 3.8% reduction in hot carcass weight (HCW), reinforcing the theory
that intensifying caloric intake during the growing phase does not compromise
future feedlot performance. Ultrasound marbling scores for MEC-treated cattle
were 19° greater than AGR treated cattle (P ≤ 0.05) at the end of the growing
phase trial. Nearly the exact same advantage (22°) was observed in the cooler 5
mo later (P = 0.42). Implying MEC metabolically imprinted cattle to favor
marbling development. It appears that maximizing dietary caloric density in
light-weight calves does not adversely affect the growth curve, while oral dosing
of MEC during the growing period may be a precursor for enhanced quality grade.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
American Society of Animal Science.

DOI: 10.1093/tas/txaa031 
PMCID: PMC7201175
PMID: 32705029 

