
1. Transl Anim Sci. 2019 Nov 29;4(1):159-169. doi: 10.1093/tas/txz180. eCollection
2020 Jan.

Influence of dietary roughage level and Megasphaera elsdenii on feedlot
performance and carcass composition of thin cull beef cows fed for a lean market.

DeClerck JC(1), Reeves NR(1), Miller MF(1), Johnson BJ(1), Ducharme GA(2),
Rathmann RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal and Food Sciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX.
(2)MS Biotec Inc., Wamego, KS.

One hundred forty-four cull cows (body condition score = 2.10 ± 0.61; BW = 456 ± 
47 kg) were organized into a 2 × 2 factorial design (48 pens, 12 pens/treatment, 
and 3 cows/pen) to evaluate the effect of dietary roughage level and oral
drenching of Megasphaera elsdenii NCIMB 41125 (M. elsdenii culture; Lactipro
Advance; MS Biotec Inc., Wamego, KS) on performance and carcass characteristics. 
Cattle were finished over a 42-day realimentation period, and aggressively
stepped up over a 10-day period to either a high roughage finisher (HRF; 25%
roughage) or a low roughage finisher (LRF; 10% roughage). Within diet, cattle
were administered no probiotic or 100 mL of M. elsdenii culture (M. elsdenii
NCIMB 41125, 2 108 cfu/mL) on day 0. No diet × probiotic interactions were
detected (P ≥ 0.15), suggesting that the magnitude of the response was not
influenced by the concentrate level of the diet. The main effect of diet
triggered several significant responses. Decreasing roughage level tended to
improve average daily gain (ADG) by 9.7% (0.26 kg, P = 0.08), while decreasing
dry matter intake (DMI) by 0.9 kg (P = 0.09), provoking a 19.7% enhancement of
feed efficiency (0.036 units, P < 0.01). However, interim data revealed declines 
of performance parameters among both diets with a significant difference between 
treatments only documented during the final phase of the realimentation period.
During the final 14 days, LRF posted a 0.68 kg increase in ADG (P = 0.05) and a
2.0 kg decrease in DMI (P = 0.01), translating to improved feed efficiency (0.054
units, P = 0.03). This suggests that increasing the caloric density of finishing 
diets may help offset the regression of performance typically observed following 
a compensatory gain. No carcass traits were impacted by either diet or M.
elsdenii culture (P ≥ 0.08). Overall, oral drenching of M. elsdenii culture
tended to augment ADG (0.26 kg, P = 0.08) and carcass ADG (0.20 kg, P = 0.10).
Implying that M. elsdenii culture was effective at alleviating the acidosis risk 
prompted by the rapid step-up period employed in the trial and may help
capitalize on the narrow timeline of compensatory gain in cull cow
realimentation.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
American Society of Animal Science.

DOI: 10.1093/tas/txz180 
PMCID: PMC6994085
PMID: 32704976 

