
1. J Perinat Neonatal Nurs. 2020 Jul/Sep;34(3):211-221. doi:
10.1097/JPN.0000000000000494.

Exploring the Maternal and Infant Oral Microbiomes: A Pilot Study.

Yang I(1), Hu YJ, Corwin EJ, Dunlop AL.

Author information: 
(1)Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing (Drs Yang and Dunlop), and Department 
of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Rollins School of Public Health (Dr Hu),
Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia; and School of Nursing, Columbia University,
New York City, New York (Dr Corwin).

Setting the stage for good oral health early in life is critical to long-term
oral and overall health. This exploratory study aimed to characterize and compare
maternal and newborn oral microbiota among mother-infant pairs. Oral samples were
collected from 34 pregnant African American women and their infants at 1 to 3
months of age. Extracted 16SrRNA genes were matched to the Human Oral Microbiome 
Database. Alpha and beta diversity differed significantly between overall
maternal and infant microbiomes. Maternal or infant alpha diversity, however, was
not differentiated by maternal gingival status. Several demographic and
behavioral variables were associated with, but not predictive of, maternal oral
microbiome alpha diversity. There was no association, however, among birth mode, 
feeding mode, and the infant oral microbiome. Megasphaera micronuciformis was the
only periodontal pathogen detected among the infants. Notably, maternal gingival 
status was not associated with the presence/absence of most periodontal
pathogens. This study provides an initial description of the maternal and infant 
oral microbiomes, laying the groundwork for future studies. The perinatal period 
presents an important opportunity where perinatal nurses and providers can
provide oral assessment, education, and referral to quality dental care.

DOI: 10.1097/JPN.0000000000000494 
PMID: 32697540 

