
1. Transl Anim Sci. 2019 Dec 6;4(1):194-205. doi: 10.1093/tas/txz185. eCollection
2020 Jan.

The influence of Megasphaera elsdenii on rumen morphometrics of cull cows
immediately stepped up to a high-energy finishing diet.

DeClerck JC(1), Reeves NR(1), Miller MF(1), Johnson BJ(1), Ducharme GA(2),
Rathmann RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal and Food Sciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX.
(2)MS Biotec, Inc., Wamego, KS.

Forty-five beef cull cows [body weight (BW) = 503 ± 58 kg; body condition score
(BCS) = 2.1 ± 0.6] were randomized into two treatments to compare the effects of 
oral drenching of no probiotic vs. 100 mL of Megasphaera elsdenii NCIMB 41125 (
M. elsdenii culture; Lactipro Advance; 2 × 108 cfu/mL; MS Biotec, Inc., Wamego,
KS) on the realimentation of cull cows. The study featured a rapid 0-d step-up of
concentrate-naïve cull cows to a 90% concentrate diet (1.43 Mcal/kg of NEg). The 
cows were finished for 35 d and were fitted with a wireless rumination tag
(Allflex Flex Tag; SCR Engineers, Ltd, Netanya, Israel), which tracked head
movement to record eating and chewing activity. Rumen morphometrics was recorded 
on the harvest floor, with each carcass assigned a rumenitis score, and a
fragment of the cranial sac removed for further papillae analysis. An additional 
23, thin, non-fed cull cows were harvested at the same abattoir to compare the
effects of concentrate realimentation on ruminal morphometrics. Megasphaera
elsdenii culture-drenched cattle registered a 13.3% increase in rumination time
(39.27 min/d, P = 0.03) during the first week of the trial compared to controls. 
A numerical rumination advantage for M. elsdenii culture-administered cattle was 
observed during week 2 of trial (P = 0.17), with no differences between
treatments from weeks 3 to 5 (P ≥ 0.40). Subjective rumenitis evaluations
approached a tendency (P = 0.12), with non-M. elsdenii culture-drenched
concentrate-fed cattle logging twice the score of their day 0 cohorts (2.52 vs.
1.17) suggesting considerable lactic insults occurred to the ruminal epithelium
in the short 35-d trial. Despite the short feeding duration, concentrate
realimentation prompted a significant improvement in mean papillae area (P <
0.01). Among concentrate-fed treatments, M. elsdenii culture-drenched cattle
posted superior absorptive surface area (P = 0.01) and a greater ratio of
papillae area of absorptive surface area (P = 0.05), suggesting that M. elsdenii 
culture is favorably altering the ecology of the rumen and promoting papillae
growth perhaps by mitigating lactate-driven pH drops. In conclusion, M. elsdenii 
culture application in a 0-d step-up protocol to finishing diets can help
mitigate the effects of ruminal acidosis.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
American Society of Animal Science.

DOI: 10.1093/tas/txz185 
PMCID: PMC6994023
PMID: 32704979 

