
1. J Infect Chemother. 2020 Jan;26(1):107-109. doi: 10.1016/j.jiac.2019.03.028. Epub
2019 Oct 4.

Hemodialysis vascular access infection caused by Methylobacterium radiotolerans: 
The first confirmed case in Japan.

Kaneko M(1), Tominaga Y(2), Sakamoto K(3), Shikata H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Uwajima City Hospital, 1-1 Goten-machi,
Uwajima City, Ehime, 798-8510, Japan. Electronic address:
m03oia2308@wi.kualnet.jp.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Uwajima City Hospital, 1-1 Goten-machi,
Uwajima City, Ehime, 798-8510, Japan. Electronic address: y401064u@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Uwajima City Hospital, 1-1 Goten-machi,
Uwajima City, Ehime, 798-8510, Japan. Electronic address:
ak.m0u.golbom.ks@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Uwajima City Hospital, 1-1 Goten-machi,
Uwajima City, Ehime, 798-8510, Japan. Electronic address: shikata@uwajima-mh.jp.

Methylobacterium species are heterotrophic and fastidious Gram-negative bacilli
that can be opportunistic pathogens in immunocompromised patients. These species 
form pink-pigmented colonies on agar plates and have been frequently isolated
from tap water in hospitals. Herein, we describe a case of vascular
access-related bloodstream infection caused by Methylobacterium radiotolerans in 
an 82-year-old man who was undergoing hemodialysis and had an implanted permanent
pacemaker. Gram-negative rods cultured from his peripheral blood after incubation
for 7 days were identified as M. radiotolerans by matrix-assisted laser
desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) and 16S
rRNA gene sequencing. The patient was treated with meropenem and daptomycin for 8
days, and levofloxacin was subsequently given orally for 6 days. However, eleven 
days after completion of the treatment, the patient developed another febrile
episode, and the vascular access line blood and his peripheral blood also grew
M. radiotolerans. Meropenem and rifampicin were administered and the vascular
access line was removed and replaced. Subsequently, oral levofloxacin and
rifampicin treatment was maintained for 8 weeks and the patient recovered without
removal of the permanent pacemaker. M. radiotolerans grew slowly in blood
culture, and the isolate showed optimal growth on Reasoner's 2 Agar (R2A). To our
knowledge, this is the first report of a hemodialysis vascular access-related
bloodstream infection caused by M. radiotolerans in Japan. Our experience
suggests that clinicians should be aware of the possibility of vascular access
infection caused by M. radiotolerans.

Copyright © 2019 Japanese Society of Chemotherapy and The Japanese Association
for Infectious Diseases. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jiac.2019.03.028 
PMID: 31591059  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

