
1. Biology (Basel). 2020 Sep 13;9(9). pii: E287. doi: 10.3390/biology9090287.

Metabolites Produced by Kaistia sp. 32K Promote Biofilm Formation in Coculture
with Methylobacterium sp. ME121.

Usui Y(1), Shimizu T(2), Nakamura A(2), Ito M(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Life Sciences, Toyo University, Oura-gun, Gunma 374-0193,
Japan.
(2)Faculty of Life and Environmental Sciences, and Microbiology Research Center
for Sustainability (MiCS), University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki305-8572,
Japan.
(3)Bio-Nano Electronics Research Centre, Toyo University, Kawagoe, Saitama
350-8585, Japan.

Previously, we reported that the coculture of motile Methylobacterium sp. ME121
and non-motile Kaistia sp. 32K, isolated from the same soil sample, displayed
accelerated motility of strain ME121 due to an extracellular polysaccharide (EPS)
produced by strain 32K. Since EPS is a major component of biofilms, we aimed to
investigate the biofilm formation in cocultures of the two strains. The extent of
biofilm formation was measured by a microtiter dish assay with the dye crystal
violet. A significant increase in the amount of biofilm was observed in the
coculture of the two strains, as compared to that of the monocultures, which
could be due to a metabolite produced by strain 32K. However, in the coculture
with strain 32K, using Escherichia coli or Pseudomonas aeruginosa, there was no
difference in the amount of biofilm formation as compared with the monoculture.
Elevated biofilm formation was also observed in the coculture of strain ME121
with Kaistia adipata, which was isolated from a different soil sample.
Methylobacterium radiotolerans, isolated from another soil sample, showed a
significant increase in biofilm formation when cocultured with K. adipata, but
not with strain 32K. We also found that the culture supernatants of strains 32K
and K. adipata accelerated the motility of strains ME121 and M. radiotolerans,
wherein culture supernatant of K. adipata significantly increased the motility of
M. radiotolerans, as compared to that by the culture supernatant of strain 32K.
These results indicated that there was a positive relationship between
accelerated motility and increased biofilm formation in Methylobacterium spp.
This is the first study to report that the metabolites from Kaistia spp. could
specifically modulate the biofilm-forming ability of Methylobacterium spp.
Methylobacterium spp. biofilms are capable of inhibiting the biofilm formation of
mycobacteria, which are opportunistic pathogens that cause problems in infectious
diseases. Thus, the metabolites from the culture supernatant of Kaistia spp. have
the potential to contribute to the environment in which increased biofilm
production of Methylobacterium is desired.

DOI: 10.3390/biology9090287 
PMID: 32933123 

