
1. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2020 Sep 7. doi: 10.1007/s11356-020-10672-9. [Epub
ahead of print]

Evaluation of the efficiency of chlorpyrifos-ethyl remediation by
Methylobacterium radiotolerans and Microbacterium arthrosphaerae using response
of some biochemical biomarkers.

Onder Erguven G(1), Tatar Åž(2), Serdar O(3), Yildirim NC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Processes, Tunceli Vocation School,
Munzur University, 62000, Tunceli, Turkey. gokhanondererguven@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Processes, Tunceli Vocation School,
Munzur University, 62000, Tunceli, Turkey.
(3)Fisheries Faculty, Munzur University, 62000, Tunceli, Turkey.
(4)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Pertek Sakine GencVocational School,
Laboratorian and Veterinarian Health Pr, Munzur University, 62000, Tunceli,
Turkey.

This study reveals out detoxifying and antioxidant enzyme response of Gammarus
pulex exposed/polluted to chlorpyrifos-ethyl insecticide before and after
biodegradation/bioremediation by Methylobacterium radiotolerans and
Microbacterium arthrosphaerae. Cytochrome P450 1A1, glutathione S-transferase,
catalase, and superoxide dismutase activities in G. pulex exposed to
chlorpyrifos-ethyl before and after bioremediation/biodegradation by these two
bacteria during 24 and 96 h tested by using commercial ELISA kits. The activity
of catalase enzyme was decreased depending on chlorpyrifos-ethyl before and after
bioremediation/biodegradation the enzyme activity was increased repeatedly.
Superoxide dismutase activity level increased after chlorpyrifos-ethyl exposure
in 96 h (p > 0.05). Following bioremediation, superoxide dismutase enzyme
activity decreased again during 24 h (p > 0.05) and increased during 96 h (p <
0.05). Statistical differences were not found in cytochrome P450 1A1 enzyme
activity before and after the process (p > 0.05). No significant differences were
determined during the activity of glutathione S-transferase in 24 h (p > 0.05).
The activities of glutathione S-transferase were increased after exposure of
chlorpyrifos-ethyl during 96 h. After bioremediation; the activity of glutathione
S-transferase increased even more (p < 0.05). The results determined that
activities of G. pulex at superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione
S-transferase are common biomarkers for revealing out the efficiency of
bioremediation of chlorpyrifos-ethyl with these two types of soil bacteria.
Graphical abstract.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-020-10672-9 
PMID: 32893334 

