
1. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2020 Jun 10;22(22):12434-12446. doi: 10.1039/d0cp02014a.

The first molecular characterisation of blue- and red-light photoreceptors from
Methylobacterium radiotolerans.

Consiglieri E(1), Xu QZ(2), Zhao KH(3), Gärtner W(4), Losi A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mathematical, Physical and Computer Sciences, University of
Parma, Parco Area delle Scienze 7/A, 43124 Parma, Italy. aba.losi@unipr.it.
(2)Institute for Analytical Chemistry, University of Leipzig, Linnéstrasse 3,
04103 Leipzig, Germany and State Key Laboratory of Agricultural Microbiology,
Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan 430070, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Agricultural Microbiology, Huazhong Agricultural
University, Wuhan 430070, China.
(4)Institute for Analytical Chemistry, University of Leipzig, Linnéstrasse 3,
04103 Leipzig, Germany.

Methylobacteria are facultative methylotrophic phytosymbionts of great industrial
and agronomical interest, and they are considered as opportunistic pathogens
posing a health threat to humans. So far only a few reports mention photoreceptor
coding sequences in Methylobacteria genomes, but no investigation at the
molecular level has been performed yet. We here present comprehensive in silico
research into potential photoreceptors in this bacterial phylum and report the
photophysical and photochemical characterisation of two representatives of the
most widespread photoreceptor classes, a blue-light sensing LOV (light, oxygen,
voltage) protein and a red/far red light sensing BphP (biliverdin-binding
bacterial phytochrome) from M. radiotolerans JCM 2831. Overall, both proteins
undergo the expected light-triggered reactions, but peculiar features were also
identified. The LOV protein Mr4511 has an extremely long photocycle and lacks a
tryptophan conserved in ca. 75% of LOV domains. Mutation I37V accelerates the
photocycle by one order of magnitude, while the Q112W change underscores the
ability of tryptophan in this position to perform efficient energy transfer to
the flavin chromophore. Time-resolved photoacoustic experiments showed that
Mr4511 has a higher triplet quantum yield than other LOV domains and that the
formation of the photoproduct results in a volume expansion, in sharp contrast to
other LOV proteins. Mr4511 was found to be astonishingly resistant to
denaturation by urea, still showing light-triggered reactions after incubation in
urea for more than 20 h. The phytochrome MrBphP1 exhibits the so far most
red-shifted absorption maxima for its Pr- and Pfr forms (λmax = 707 nm and 764 nm
for the Pr and Pfr forms). The light-driven conversions in both directions occur 
with relatively high quantum yields of 0.2. Transient ns absorption spectroscopy 
(μs-ms time range) identifies the decay of the instantaneously formed
lumi-intermediate, followed by only one additional intermediate before the
formation of the respective final photoproducts for Pr-to-Pfr or Pfr-to-Pr
photoconversion, in contrast to other BphPs. The relatively simple
photoconversion patterns suggest the absence of the shunt pathways reported for
other bacterial phytochromes.

DOI: 10.1039/d0cp02014a 
PMID: 32458860 

