
1. Cancers (Basel). 2020 Sep 5;12(9). pii: E2524. doi: 10.3390/cancers12092524.

Influence of Intratumor Microbiome on Clinical Outcome and Immune Processes in
Prostate Cancer.

Ma J(1)(2), Gnanasekar A(1)(2), Lee A(1)(2), Li WT(1)(2), Haas M(3)(4),
Wang-Rodriguez J(5)(6), Chang EY(7)(8), Rajasekaran M(9)(10), Ongkeko WM(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, UC
San Diego School of Medicine, San Diego, CA 92093, USA.
(2)Research Service, VA San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, CA 92093, USA.
(3)Moores UCSD Cancer Center, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA
92093, USA.
(4)Division of Biological Sciences, University of California San Diego, La Jolla,
CA 92093, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology, University of California, San Diego, CA 92093, USA.
(6)Pathology Service, VA San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, CA 92161, USA.
(7)Department of Radiology, University of California, San Diego, CA 92093, USA.
(8)Radiology Service, VA San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, CA 92161, USA.
(9)Department of Urology, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093,
USA.
(10)Urology Service, VA San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, CA 92161, USA.

Although 1 in 9 American men will receive a diagnosis of prostate cancer (PC),
most men with this diagnosis will not die from it, as most PCs are indolent.
However, there is a subset of patients in which the once-indolent PC becomes
metastatic and eventually, fatal. In this study, we analyzed microbial
compositions of intratumor bacteria in PC to determine the influence of the
microbiome on metastatic growth. Using large-scale RNA-sequencing data and
corresponding clinical data, we correlated the abundance of microbes to immune
pathways and PC risk factors, identifying specific microbes that either
significantly deter or contribute to cancer aggressiveness. Interestingly, most
of the microbes we found appeared to play anti-tumor roles in PC. Since these
anti-tumor microbes were overrepresented in tumor samples, we believe that
microbes thrive in the tumor microenvironment, outcompete cancer cells, and
directly mitigate tumor growth by recruiting immune cells. These include Listeria
monocytogenes, Methylobacterium radiotolerans JCM 2831, Xanthomonas albilineans
GPE PC73, and Bradyrhizobium japonicum, which are negatively correlated with
Gleason score, Tumor-Node-Metastasis (TNM) stage, prostate-specific antigen (PSA)
level, and Androgen Receptor (AR) expression, respectively. We also identified
microbes that contribute to tumor growth and are positively correlated with
genomic alterations, dysregulated immune-associated (IA) genes, and prostate
cancer stem cells (PCSC) genes.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers12092524 
PMID: 32899474 

