
1. Curr Microbiol. 2019 Dec;76(12):1461-1466. doi: 10.1007/s00284-019-01774-w. Epub 
2019 Sep 24.

The Evaluation of Imidacloprid Remediation in Soil Media by Two Bacterial
Strains.

Erguven GO(1), Yildirim N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Munzur
University, 62000, Tunceli, Turkey. gokhanondererguven@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Environmental Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Munzur
University, 62000, Tunceli, Turkey.

Imidacloprid (C9H10ClN5O2) is used as the most recommended type of insecticide in
vegetable farming worldwide. Two types of bacteria (Methylobacterium
radiotolerans and Microbacterium arthrosphaerae) were isolated from a corn
farming field in the Thrace region of Turkey, and then consortia of these
bacteria were prepared from equal volumes of 107 CFU/ml for each bacterium type. 
Imidacloprid remediation studies were carried out during 18 days in soil test
units. The water filtered from these soil test units was determined for chemical 
oxygen demand (COD) and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) to determine the optimum
concentration of microorganisms to ascertain the best removal efficiency of
Imidacloprid. COD removal rates were 98.7%, 96.4% and 51.6% with 80, 40, and
20 ml volumes of the consortia of bacteria, respectively, at the end of 18 days. 
The BOD5 removal rates were 88.4%, 78.6% and 49.9% in the same volumes of
bacteria, respectively. As a result of this study, we have found that this
bacterial consortium is very effective for the bioremediation of this insecticide
at the two volumes of 40 and 80 ml, both being better than 20 ml.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-019-01774-w 
PMID: 31552451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

