
1. Braz J Microbiol. 2020 Aug 21. doi: 10.1007/s42770-020-00366-2. [Epub ahead of
print]

Evaluation of antimicrobial properties of a novel synthesized nanometric
delafossite.

Sayed MA(1), El-Bassuony AAH(2), Abdelsalam HK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Botany and Microbiology Department, Faculty of Science, Cairo University,
Giza, Egypt.
(2)Physics Department, Faculty of Science, Cairo University, Giza, Egypt.
asmaa@sci.cu.edu.eg.
(3)Basic Science Department, Higher Institute of Applied Arts 5th Settlement, New
Cairo, Egypt.

Antibiotics and other antimicrobial compounds are the backbone of clinical
medicine. Antimicrobial resistance can cause serious diseases to man.
Nanotechnology can improve therapeutic potential of medicinal molecules and
related agents. Widespread application of antibiotics and other antimicrobial
compounds led to development of multidrug-resistant microbes, so there is need to
develop novel therapeutic agents. Novel synthesized nanometric delafossite was
assayed against two Gram-positive bacteria (Staphylococcus aureus and Micrococcus
luteus), two Gram-negative bacteria (Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae),
four opportunistic fungi (Aspergillus flavus, A. fumigatus, A. niger, and
Fusarium solani), and four Candida species (C. albicans, C. parapsilosis, C.
krusei, and C. tropicalis) using diffusion assay method. The minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) of the novel synthesized nanometric delafossite was
determined using the dilution method. The assayed compounds showed different
degrees of antifungal and antibacterial activities, depending on the annealing
temperature of preparation of these compounds. Compounds prepared at room
temperature showed greater antimicrobial activities than those prepared at higher
temperatures. The antimicrobial activity depends also on the susceptibility of
the test microbe.

DOI: 10.1007/s42770-020-00366-2 
PMID: 32822003 

