
1. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 2019 Dec;109:104485. doi: 10.1016/j.yrtph.2019.104485.
Epub 2019 Sep 27.

90-Day repeated oral toxicity test of D-allulose produced from Microbacterium
foliorum.

An M(1), Lee J(1), Park YC(1), Park C(2), Kim HJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)GLP Center & Dept. of Toxicity Assessment, Daegu Catholic University,
Gyeongsan, 38430, Republic of Korea.
(2)Samyang Corp, 295 Pangyo-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of
Korea.
(3)Samyang Corp, 295 Pangyo-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of
Korea. Electronic address: hyejung.kim@samyang.com.

D-allulose is considered an ideal substitute for sucrose, because it has 70% of
the sweetness of sucrose and ultra-low energy. Chemical and biotechnological
methods have been developed to produce Dallulose from D-fructose because
D-allulose exists in extremely small quantities in nature. In this study, we
performed a 90-day repeated oral dose toxicity test on rats using D-allulose
produced from Microbacterium foliorum-a non-GMO species isolated from salad
ginseng-in dosages of 0, 1250, 2500 and 5000 mg/kg/day. We developed a toxicity
determination criterion based on the significant change caused by the
administration of the substance to estimate the NOEL, NOAEL, and LOAEL of the
substance applied in this study. This test found only minor compound-related
changes in both male and female rats in the high dose group and no important
compound-related changes. Thus, we determined the NOAEL of Dallulose in both
sexes to be 5,000 mg/kg/day. This study's finding of a NOAEL of 5,000 mg/kg/day
should ensure that D-allulose produced from Microbacterium foliorum is classified
as a safe and ordinary substance.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yrtph.2019.104485 
PMID: 31568817  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

