
1. Vet Med Int. 2020 Jul 30;2020:8821324. doi: 10.1155/2020/8821324. eCollection
2020.

Natural Concurrent Infections with Black Spot Disease and Multiple Bacteriosis in
Farmed Nile Tilapia in Central Kenya.

Wanja DW(1)(2)(3), Mbuthia PG(1), Waruiru RM(1), Bebora LC(1), Ngowi HA(3).

Author information: 
(1)University of Nairobi, College of Agriculture and Veterinary Sciences,
Department of Veterinary Pathology, Microbiology and Parasitology, P.O. Box
29053-00625, Kangemi, Nairobi, Kenya.
(2)Animal Health and Industrial Training Institute (AHITI) Kabete, P.O. Box
29040-00625, Kangemi, Nairobi, Kenya.
(3)Sokoine University of Agriculture, College of Veterinary and Medical Sciences,
P.O. Box 3000, Chuo Kikuu, Morogoro, Tanzania.

Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) is the most cultured and available fish for 
Kenyan consumers, and therefore, any tilapine disease deprives them the valuable 
source of protein. Nile tilapia farm was diagnosed with severe concurrent black
spot disease and multiple bacteriosis using gross lesions and parasitological,
histopathology, and standard bacteriological procedures. A total of 25 fish were 
sampled and inspected, and all of them had raised, macroscopic 1 mm-sized black
spot lesions. The mean intensity of black spots per fish was 728 with an
abundance of 2-1740 metacercariae cysts per fish. A high intensity of black spot 
infestation was observed in the fins (43.9%), skin and underlying muscles
(18.3%), and gills (18%). In addition, histopathological data confirmed presence 
of a metacercaria of Neascus spp. as the aetiological agent of black spot
disease. Furthermore, a thick fibrous capsule around the metacercaria, black
pigment melanomacrophages, and moderate muscle atrophy were observed. The most
prevalent bacteria isolated were Aeromonas, Enterobacter cloacae, Klebsiella
pneumoniae, and Micrococcus luteus. Physicochemical parameters of pond water were
temperature (28.2°C), dissolved oxygen (4.2 mgl-1), pH (8.5), ammonia free
nitrogen (15.8 mgl-1), alkalinity (112 mgl-1), hardness (68 mgl-1), nitrites
(0.058 mgl-1), nitrates (58 mgl-1), and phosphates (0.046 mgl-1). However, the
levels of nitrates, nitrites, alkalinity, and ammonia free nitrogen exceeded the 
recommended limits. In conclusion, these findings suggest that coinfections by
these organisms coupled by water quality-related stress can be associated with
low-grade mortality observed in postfingerling tilapia as well as reduced growth.
The authors recommended immediate destocking, thorough disinfection, and control 
of piscivorous birds. Moreover, attention ought to be geared towards prevention
of parasitic infestations in fish so as to minimize fish deaths related to
secondary bacteriosis. Further experimental studies should be carried out to
elucidate the relationship of these pathogens.

Copyright © 2020 Daniel W. Wanja et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/8821324 
PMCID: PMC7414341
PMID: 32802305 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest
regarding publication of this paper.

