
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2019 Nov;69(11):3512-3518. doi:
10.1099/ijsem.0.003654.

Reclassification of Micrococcus aloeverae and Micrococcus yunnanensis as later
heterotypic synonyms of Micrococcus luteus.

Huang CH(1), Wang CL(1), Liou JS(1), Lee AY(1), Blom J(2), Huang L(1), Watanabe
K(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Bioresource Collection and Research Center (BCRC), Food Industry Research and 
Development Institute, 331 Shih-Pin Rd., Hsinchu 30062, Taiwan, ROC.
(2)Bioinformatics and Systems Biology, Justus-Liebig-University Giessen, Giessen,
35392, Germany.
(3)Department of Animal Science and Technology, College of Bioresources and
Agriculture, National Taiwan University, No. 50, Ln. 155, Sec. 3, Keelung Rd.,
Taipei 10673, Taiwan, ROC.

Micrococcus aloeverae,Micrococcus endophyticus, Micrococcus luteus and
Micrococcus yunnanensis are phenotypically and genotypically closely related, and
together comprise the M. luteus group. In this study, the taxonomic relationships
among Micrococcus aloeverae, M. luteus and M. yunnanensis were re-evaluated by
using polyphasic approaches. The similarity values of the concatenated
housekeeping gene (gyrB, recA and rpoB) sequences shared by the type strains of
M. aloeverae, M. luteus and M. yunnanensis ranged from 98.3 to 99.4 %. The
average nucleotide identity, average amino acid identity and digital DNA‒DNA
hybridization values among these three taxa were greater (97.1‒98.1 %,
96.8‒98.1 % and 75.0‒83.5 %, respectively) than the thresholds for bacterial
species delineation, indicating that they belong to the same species, whereas
those for M. endophyticus were clearly lower than the thresholds. In addition,
phenotypic and chemotaxonomic characterization results also support the synonymy 
of these three taxa. Therefore, we propose that M. aloeverae and M. yunnanensis
should be reclassified as later heterotypic synonyms of M. luteus.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003654 
PMID: 31454307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

