
1. Nat Commun. 2020 Aug 4;11(1):3894. doi: 10.1038/s41467-020-17736-x.

The Human LL-37(17-29) antimicrobial peptide reveals a functional supramolecular 
structure.

Engelberg Y(1), Landau M(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, 3200003,
Haifa, Israel.
(2)Department of Biology, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, 3200003,
Haifa, Israel. mlandau@technion.ac.il.
(3)Centre for Structural Systems Biology (CSSB), and European Molecular Biology
Laboratory (EMBL), 22607, Hamburg, Germany. mlandau@technion.ac.il.

Here, we demonstrate the self-assembly of the antimicrobial human LL-37 active
core (residues 17-29) into a protein fibril of densely packed helices. The
surface of the fibril encompasses alternating hydrophobic and positively charged 
zigzagged belts, which likely underlie interactions with and subsequent
disruption of negatively charged lipid bilayers, such as bacterial membranes.
LL-3717-29 correspondingly forms wide, ribbon-like, thermostable fibrils in
solution, which co-localize with bacterial cells. Structure-guided mutagenesis
analyses supports the role of self-assembly in antibacterial activity. LL-3717-29
resembles, in sequence and in the ability to form amphipathic helical fibrils,
the bacterial cytotoxic PSMα3 peptide that assembles into cross-α amyloid
fibrils. This argues helical, self-assembling, basic building blocks across
kingdoms of life and points to potential structural mimicry mechanisms. The
findings expose a protein fibril which performs a biological activity, and offer 
a scaffold for functional and durable biomaterials for a wide range of medical
and technological applications.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-17736-x 
PMCID: PMC7403366
PMID: 32753597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

