
1. Faraday Discuss. 2020 Jul 28. doi: 10.1039/d0fd00026d. [Epub ahead of print]

Integration of bio-responsive silver in 1D photonic crystals: towards the
colorimetric detection of bacteria.

Patern√≤ GM(1), Moscardi L(2), Donini S(1), Ross AM(3), Pietralunga SM(4), Dalla
Vedova N(1), Normani S(1), Kriegel I(5), Lanzani G(2), Scotognella F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Nano Science and Technology, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia (IIT),
Via Pascoli 10, Milano, 20133, Italy. Giuseppe.Paterno@iit.it.
(2)Center for Nano Science and Technology, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia (IIT),
Via Pascoli 10, Milano, 20133, Italy. Giuseppe.Paterno@iit.it and Physics
Department, Politecnico di Milano, Piazza L. da Vinci 32, 20133 Milano, Italy.
(3)Physics Department, Politecnico di Milano, Piazza L. da Vinci 32, 20133
Milano, Italy.
(4)Center for Nano Science and Technology, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia (IIT),
Via Pascoli 10, Milano, 20133, Italy. Giuseppe.Paterno@iit.it and Institute for
Photonics and Nanotechnologies (IFN), Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche (CNR),
Piazza L. da Vinci 32, 20133 Milano, Italy.
(5)Department of Nanochemistry, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia (IIT), via
Morego, 30, 16163 Genova, Italy.

The colour purity and versatility of fabrication of one-dimensional photonic
crystals (1D PhCs) make them ideal candidates for colorimetric sensing of a
variety of analytes. For instance, the detection of bacterial contaminants in
food via colorimetric sensors can be highly appealing, as most of the existing
detection techniques are in general time-consuming and the read-out requires
specialised personnel. Here, we present a colorimetric sensor based on hybrid
plasmonic/photonic 1D crystals. We demonstrate that the modification of the
silver plasmon resonance brought about by the effective silver/bacterium
interaction can be translated into the visible spectral region, producing a
change in the structural colour. In addition, we observe a superior colorimetric 
sensitivity against the Gram negative Escherichia coli compared to the Gram
positive Micrococcus luteus, a result that we attribute to the more efficient
electrostatic interaction and cellular adhesion between the silver surface and
the Gram-negative bacteria outer membrane. This approach demonstrates that in
principle an easy colorimetric detection of bacterial contaminants can be
achieved through the use of bio-responsive plasmonic materials, such as silver,
whose selective electrostatic interaction with bacterial cell wall is well-known 
and occurs without the need of chemical functionalisation.

DOI: 10.1039/d0fd00026d 
PMID: 32720674 

