
1. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2020 Aug 11;8:961. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00961.
eCollection 2020.

Formulation of Bio-Based Washing Agent and Its Application for Removal of
Petroleum Hydrocarbons From Drill Cuttings Before Bioremediation.

Arpornpong N(1), Padungpol R(2), Khondee N(1), Tongcumpou C(3)(4),
Soonglerdsongpha S(5), Suttiponparnit K(5), Luepromchai E(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Natural Resources and Environment, Faculty of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Environment, Naresuan University, Phitsanulok, Thailand.
(2)Microbial Technology for Marine Pollution Treatment Research Unit, Department 
of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)Environmental Research Institute, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(4)Research Program on Remediation Technologies for Petroleum Contamination,
Center of Excellence on Hazardous Substance Management, Chulalongkorn University,
Bangkok, Thailand.
(5)Environmental Technology Research Department, Innovation Institute, PTT Public
Company Limited, Bangkok, Thailand.

Drill cuttings from petroleum exploration and production sites can cause diverse 
environmental problems. Total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPHs) are a major pollutant
from the use of polyolefin-based mud. As an alternative to incineration, this
study investigated the application of surfactant-enhanced washing technology
prior to bioremediation. The washing step was necessary because the initial TPH
concentrations were quite high at approximately 15% (w/w). Washing agents were
formulated by varying the concentration of lipopeptide biosurfactant (in foamate 
or cell-free broth), Dehydol LS7TH (fatty alcohol ethoxylate 7EO, oleochemical
surfactant) and butanol (as a lipophilic linker) at different salinities. The
most efficient formula produced a Winsor Type I microemulsion (oil-in-water
microemulsion) with polyolefin and contained only 20% (v/v) foamate and 2% (v/v) 
Dehydol LS7TH in water. Due to the synergistic behavior between the anionic
lipopeptides and non-ionic Dehydol LS7TH, the formula efficiently removed 92% of 
the TPHs from the drill cuttings when applied in a jar test. To reduce the cost, 
the concentrations of each surfactant should be reduced; thus, the formula was
optimized by the simplex lattice mixture design. In addition, cell-free broth, at
a pH of 10, containing 3.0 g/L lipopeptides was applied instead of foamate
because it was easy to prepare. The optimized formula removed 81.2% of the TPHs
and contained 72.0% cell-free broth and 1.4% Dehydol LS7TH in water. A 20-kg soil
washing system was later tested where the petroleum removal efficiency decreased 
to 70.7% due to polyolefin redeposition during separation of the washing
solution. The remaining TPHs (4.5%) in the washed drilled cuttings were further
degraded by a mixture of Marinobacter salsuginis RK5, Microbacterium
saccharophilum RK15 and Gordonia amicalis JC11. To promote TPH biodegradation,
biochar and fertilizer were applied along with bacterial consortia in a microcosm
experiment. After 49-day incubation, the TPHs were reduced to 0.9% by both
physical and biological mechanisms, while the TPHs in the unamended samples
remained unaffected. With the use of the formulated bio-based washing agent and
bioremediation approach, the on-site treatment of drill cuttings could be
conducted with an acceptable cost and low environmental impacts.

Copyright Â© 2020 Arpornpong, Padungpol, Khondee, Tongcumpou, Soonglerdsongpha,
Suttiponparnit and Luepromchai.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00961 
PMCID: PMC7431657
PMID: 32850770 

