
1. J Basic Microbiol. 2020 Jan;60(1):22-26. doi: 10.1002/jobm.201900323. Epub 2019
Nov 6.

czcD gene from Bacillus megaterium and Microbacterium liquefaciens as a potential
nickel-vanadium soil pollution biomarker.

Fierros-Romero G(1)(2), Gómez-Ramírez M(1), Sharma A(2), Pless RC(1),
Rojas-Avelizapa NG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigación en Ciencia Aplicada y Tecnología Avanzada, Instituto
Politécnico Nacional, Querétaro, Mexico.
(2)School of Engineering and Sciences, Tecnologico de Monterrey, Campus
Querétaro, Querétaro, Mexico.

Metals are among the most prevalent pollutants released into the environment. For
these reasons, the use of biomarkers for environmental monitoring of individuals 
and populations exposed to metal pollution has gained considerable attention,
offering fast and sensitive detection of chemical stress in organisms. There are 
different metal resistance genes in bacteria that can be used as biomarkers,
including cation diffusion facilitators carrying metal ions; the prototype is the
cobalt-zinc-cadmium transporter (czcD). The present study reports the expression 
changes in the czcD gene in Bacillus megaterium and Microbacterium liquefaciens
under nickel and vanadium exposure by real-time polymerase chain reaction. The
nickel-vanadium-resistant strains of B. megaterium and M. liquefaciens used in
this study were isolated from mine tailings in Guanajuato, Mexico. The czcD gene 
showed high expression under exposure to 200 ppm of Ni and 200 ppm of V during
the logarithmic growth phase of M. liquefaciens in PHGII liquid media. In
contrast, no changes were observed in B. megaterium during logarithmic and
stationary growth, perhaps due to the gene having differential expression during 
the growth phases. The expression profiles obtained for czcD show the possibility
of using this gene from M. liquefaciens as a biomarker of nickel and vanadium
pollution in microorganisms.

© 2019 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/jobm.201900323 
PMID: 31692013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

