
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Apr;104(8):3305-3320. doi:
10.1007/s00253-019-10318-y. Epub 2020 Feb 22.

Functional genomic analysis of bacterial lignin degraders: diversity in
mechanisms of lignin oxidation and metabolism.

Granja-Travez RS(1)(2), Persinoti GF(3), Squina FM(4), Bugg TDH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK.
(2)Facultad de Ciencias de la Ingeniería e Industrias, Universidad UTE, Quito,
Ecuador.
(3)Laboratório Nacional de Biorrenováveis (LNBR/CNPEM), Campinas, Brazil.
(4)Programa de Processos Tecnológicos e Ambientais, Universidade de Sorocaba,
Sorocaba, Brazil.
(5)Department of Chemistry, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK.
T.D.Bugg@warwick.ac.uk.

Although several bacterial lignin-oxidising enzymes have been discovered in
recent years, it is not yet clear whether different lignin-degrading bacteria use
similar mechanisms for lignin oxidation and degradation of lignin fragments.
Genome sequences of 13 bacterial lignin-oxidising bacteria, including new genome 
sequences for Microbacterium phyllosphaerae and Agrobacterium sp., were analysed 
for the presence of lignin-oxidising enzymes and aromatic degradation gene
clusters that could be used to metabolise the products of lignin degradation. Ten
bacterial genomes contain DyP-type peroxidases, and ten bacterial strains contain
putative multi-copper oxidases (MCOs), both known to have activity for lignin
oxidation. Only one strain lacks both MCOs and DyP-type peroxidase genes. Eleven 
bacterial genomes contain aromatic degradation gene clusters, of which ten
contain the central β-ketoadipate pathway, with variable numbers and types of
degradation clusters for other aromatic substrates. Hence, there appear to be
diverse metabolic strategies used for lignin oxidation in bacteria, while the
β-ketoadipate pathway appears to be the most common route for aromatic metabolism
in lignin-degrading bacteria.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-019-10318-y 
PMID: 32088760 

