
1. mSystems. 2020 Apr 28;5(2). pii: e00161-20. doi: 10.1128/mSystems.00161-20.

Commensal Oral Rothia mucilaginosa Produces Enterobactin, a Metal-Chelating
Siderophore.

Uranga CC(1), Arroyo P Jr(1), Duggan BM(2), Gerwick WH(2)(3), Edlund A(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)J. Craig Venter Institute, Genomic Medicine Group, La Jolla, California, USA.
(2)University of California San Diego, Skaggs School of Pharmacy and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, La Jolla, California, USA.
(3)Center for Marine Biotechnology and Biomedicine, Scripps Institution of
Oceanography, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA.
(4)J. Craig Venter Institute, Genomic Medicine Group, La Jolla, California, USA
aedlund@jcvi.org.
(5)University of California San Diego, School of Medicine, Department of
Pediatrics, La Jolla, California, USA.

Next-generation sequencing studies of saliva and dental plaque from subjects in
both healthy and diseased states have identified bacteria belonging to the Rothia
genus as ubiquitous members of the oral microbiota. To gain a deeper
understanding of molecular mechanisms underlying the chemical ecology of this
unexplored group, we applied a genome mining approach that targets functionally
important biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs). All 45 genomes that were mined,
representing Rothia mucilaginosa, Rothia dentocariosa, and Rothia aeria, harbored
a catechol-siderophore-like BGC. To explore siderophore production further, we
grew the previously characterized R. mucilaginosa ATCC 25296 in liquid cultures, 
amended with glycerol, which led to the identification of the archetype
siderophore enterobactin by using tandem liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry 
(LC-MS/MS), high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and nuclear magnetic
resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Normally attributed to pathogenic gut bacteria, R. 
mucilaginosa is the first commensal oral bacterium found to produce enterobactin.
Cocultivation studies including R. mucilaginosa or purified enterobactin revealed
that enterobactin reduced growth of certain strains of cariogenic Streptococcus
mutans and pathogenic strains of Staphylococcus aureus Commensal oral bacteria
were either unaffected, reduced in growth, or induced to grow adjacent to
enterobactin-producing R. mucilaginosa or the pure compound. Taken together with 
Rothia's known capacity to ferment a variety of carbohydrates and amino acids,
our findings of enterobactin production add an additional level of explanation to
R. mucilaginosa's prevalence in the oral cavity. Enterobactin is the strongest
Fe(III) binding siderophore known, and its role in oral health requires further
investigation.IMPORTANCE The communication language of the human oral microbiota 
is vastly underexplored. However, a few studies have shown that specialized small
molecules encoded by BGCs have critical roles such as in colonization resistance 
against pathogens and quorum sensing. Here, by using a genome mining approach in 
combination with compound screening of growth cultures, we identified that the
commensal oral community member R. mucilaginosa harbors a catecholate-siderophore
BGC, which is responsible for the biosynthesis of enterobactin. The
iron-scavenging role of enterobactin is known to have positive effects on the
host's iron pool and negative effects on host immune function; however, its role 
in oral health remains unexplored. R. mucilaginosa was previously identified as
an abundant community member in cystic fibrosis, where bacterial iron cycling
plays a major role in virulence development. With respect to iron's broad
biological importance, iron-chelating enterobactin may explain R. mucilaginosa's 
colonization success in both health and disease.

Copyright Â© 2020 Uranga et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSystems.00161-20 
PMCID: PMC7190385
PMID: 32345739 

