
1. Syst Appl Microbiol. 2020 Jan;43(1):126043. doi: 10.1016/j.syapm.2019.126043.
Epub 2019 Nov 22.

High taxonomic diversity of Micromonospora strains isolated from Medicago sativa 
nodules in Western Spain and Australia.

Martínez-Hidalgo P(1), Flores-Félix JD(2), Velázquez E(3), Brau L(4), Trujillo
ME(2), Martínez-Molina E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biología, Geología, Física y Química inorgánica. Universidad
Rey Juan Carlos. Departamental II despacho 248. Av. Tulipán s/n, 28933 Móstoles, 
Madrid. Electronic address: martinezhp@usal.es.
(2)Departamento de Microbiología y Genética and Instituto Hispanoluso de
Investigaciones Agrarias (CIALE). Universidad de Salamanca. Edificio
Departamental de Biología. Lab 209. Av. Doctores de la Reina S/N. 37007
Salamanca.
(3)Departamento de Microbiología y Genética and Instituto Hispanoluso de
Investigaciones Agrarias (CIALE). Universidad de Salamanca. Edificio
Departamental de Biología. Lab 209. Av. Doctores de la Reina S/N. 37007
Salamanca; Unidad Asociada Grupo de Interacción Planta-Microorganismo Universidad
de Salamanca-IRNASA-CSIC, Salamanca, Spain.
(4)Deakin University, Geelong, Australia, Centre for Regional and Rural Futures, 
School of Life and Environmental Sciences.

The genus Micromonospora has been found in nodules of several legumes and some
new species of this genus were isolated from these plant organs. In this study we
analysed the taxonomic diversity of Micromonospora strains isolated from alfalfa 
nodules in Spain and Australia on the basis of three phylogenetic markers, the
rrs and gyrB genes and 16S-23S intergenic spacer (ITS). The genome analysis of
selected strains representative of different clusters or lineages found after
rrs, gyrB and ITS analyses confirmed the results obtained with these phylogenetic
markers. They showed that the analysed strains belong to at least 18
Micromonospora species including previously described ones, such as
Micromonospora noduli, Micromonospora ureilytica, Micromonospora taraxaci,
Micromonospora zamorensis, Micromonospora aurantiaca and Micromonospora
tulbaghiae. Most of these strains belong to undescribed species of Micromonospora
showing the high taxonomic diversity of strains from this genus inhabiting
alfalfa nodules. Although Micromonospora strains are not able to induce the
formation of these nodules, and it seems that they do not contribute to fix
atmospheric nitrogen, they could play a role related with the mechanisms of plant
growth promotion and pathogen protection presented by Micromonospora strains
isolated from legume nodules.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.syapm.2019.126043 
PMID: 31796230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

