
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Jul 11;21(14). pii: E4894. doi: 10.3390/ijms21144894.

Molecular Characterization of a Novel Lytic Enzyme LysC from Clostridium
intestinale URNW and Its Antibacterial Activity Mediated by Positively Charged
N-Terminal Extension.

Plotka M(1), Szadkowska M(1), Håkansson M(2), Kovačič R(2), Al-Karadaghi S(2),
Walse B(2), Werbowy O(1), Kaczorowska AK(3), Kaczorowski T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Extremophiles Biology, Department of Microbiology, Faculty of
Biology, University of Gdansk, 80-822 Gdansk, Poland.
(2)SARomics Biostructures, SE-223 81 Lund, Sweden.
(3)Collection of Plasmids and Microorganisms, Faculty of Biology, University of
Gdansk, 80-308 Gdansk, Poland.

Peptidoglycan hydrolytic enzymes are considered to be a promising alternative to 
conventional antibiotics in combating bacterial infections. To identify novel
hydrolytic enzymes, we performed a database search with the sequences of two
thermostable endolysins with high bactericidal activity, studied earlier in our
laboratory. Both these enzymes originate from Thermus scotoductus bacteriophages 
MAT2119 and vB_Tsc2631. A lytic enzyme LysC from Clostridium intestinale URNW was
found to have the highest amino acid sequence similarity to the bacteriophage
proteins and was chosen for further analysis. The recombinant enzyme showed
strong activity against its host bacteria C. intestinale, as well as against C.
sporogenes, Bacillus cereus, Micrococcus luteus, and Staphylococcus aureus, on
average causing a 5.12 ± 0.14 log reduction of viable S. aureus ATCC 25923 cells 
in a bactericidal assay. Crystallographic studies of the protein showed that the 
catalytic site of LysC contained a zinc atom coordinated by amino acid residues
His50, His147, and Cys155, a feature characteristic for type 2 amidases.
Surprisingly, neither of these residues, nor any other of the four conserved
residues in the vicinity of the active site, His51, Thr52, Tyr76, and Thr153,
were essential to maintain the antibacterial activity of LysC. Therefore, our
attention was attracted to the intrinsically disordered and highly positively
charged N-terminal region of the enzyme. Potential antibacterial activity of this
part of the sequence, predicted by the Antimicrobial Sequence Scanning System,
AMPA, was confirmed in our experimental studies; the truncated version of LysC
(LysCΔ2-23) completely lacked antibacterial activity. Moreover, a synthetic
peptide, which we termed Intestinalin, with a sequence identical to the first
thirty amino acids of LysC, displayed substantial anti-staphylococcal activity
with IC50 of 6 μg/mL (1.5 μM). This peptide was shown to have α-helical
conformation in solution in the presence of detergents which is a common feature 
of amphipathic α-helical antimicrobial peptides.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21144894 
PMCID: PMC7404271
PMID: 32664473 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

