
1. Biomed Res Int. 2019 Oct 20;2019:9530963. doi: 10.1155/2019/9530963. eCollection 
2019.

Halotolerant Rhizobacterial Strains Mitigate the Adverse Effects of NaCl Stress
in Soybean Seedlings.

Khan MA(1), Asaf S(2), Khan AL(2), Adhikari A(1), Jan R(1), Ali S(1), Imran M(1),
Kim KM(1), Lee IJ(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Applied Biosciences, Kyungpook National University, Daegu 41566,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Natural and Medical Sciences Research Center, University of Nizwa, Nizwa 616, 
Oman.
(3)Research Institute for Dok-do and Ulleung-do Island, Kyungpook National
University, Daegu, Republic of Korea.

Background: Salinity is one of the major abiotic constraints that hinder health
and quality of crops. Conversely, halotolerant plant growth-promoting
rhizospheric (PGPR) bacteria are considered biologically safe for alleviating
salinity stress.
Results: We isolated halotolerant PGPR strains from the rhizospheric soil of
Artemisia princeps, Chenopodium ficifolium, Echinochloa crus-galli, and Oenothera
biennis plants; overall, 126 strains were isolated. The plant growth-promoting
traits of these isolates were studied by inoculating them with the soil used to
grow soybean plants under normal and salt stress (NaCl; 200 mM) conditions. The
isolates identified as positive for growth-promoting activities were subjected to
molecular identification. Out of 126 isolates, five strains-Arthrobacter
woluwensis (AK1), Microbacterium oxydans (AK2), Arthrobacter aurescens (AK3),
Bacillus megaterium (AK4), and Bacillus aryabhattai (AK5)-were identified to be
highly tolerant to salt stress and demonstrated several plant growth-promoting
traits like increased production of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), gibberellin (GA),
and siderophores and increased phosphate solubilization. These strains were
inoculated in the soil of soybean plants grown under salt stress (NaCl; 200 mM)
and various physiological and morphological parameters of plants were studied.
The results showed that the microbial inoculation elevated the antioxidant (SOD
and GSH) level and K+ uptake and reduced the Na+ ion concentration. Moreover,
inoculation of these microbes significantly lowered the ABA level and increased
plant growth attributes and chlorophyll content in soybean plants under 200 mM
NaCl stress. The salt-tolerant gene GmST1 was highly expressed with the highest
expression of 42.85% in AK1-treated plants, whereas the lowest expression
observed was 13.46% in AK5-treated plants. Similarly, expression of the IAA
regulating gene GmLAX3 was highly depleted in salt-stressed plants by 38.92%,
which was upregulated from 11.26% to 43.13% upon inoculation with the
microorganism.
Conclusion: Our results showed that the salt stress-resistant microorganism used 
in these experiments could be a potential biofertilizer to mitigate the
detrimental effects of salt stress in plants via regulation of phytohormones and 
gene expression.

Copyright © 2019 Muhammad Aaqil Khan et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2019/9530963 
PMCID: PMC6925695
PMID: 31886270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

