
1. Microbiol Insights. 2020 Jul 31;13:1178636120933635. doi:
10.1177/1178636120933635. eCollection 2020.

Two Tachykinin-Related Peptides with Antimicrobial Activity Isolated from
Triatoma infestans Hemolymph.

Diniz LCL(1)(2), Alves FL(3), Miranda A(3), da Silva Junior PI(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Toxins, Immune-Response and Cell Signaling - CeTICS/CEPID,
LAboratory of Applied Toxinology, Butantan Institute, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Postgraduate Program Interunits in Biotechnology, Department of Biomedical
Sciences, USP/IPT/IBU, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Biophysics, UNIFESP, São Paulo, Brazil.

Antimicrobial peptides and proteins (AMPs) are molecules that can interact with
microbial cells and lead to membrane disruption or intracellular molecule
interactions and death. Several molecules with antimicrobial effects also present
other biological activities. One such protein group representing the duplicity of
activities is the tachykinin family. Tachykinins (TKs) form a family of
neuropeptides in vertebrates with a consensus C-terminal region (F-X-G-Y-R-NH2). 
Invertebrate TKs and TK-related peptides (TKRPs) are subfamilies found in
invertebrates that present high homology with TKs and have similar biological
effects. Several of these molecules have already been described but reports of
TKRP in Hemiptera species are limited. By analyzing the Triatoma infestans
hemolymph by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography, biological
assays, and mass spectrometry, two antimicrobial molecules were isolated and
identified as TKRPs, which we named as TRP1-TINF and TRP2-TINF
(tachykinin-related peptides I and II from T. infestans). TRP1-TINF is a random
secondary structure peptide with 9 amino acid residues. It is susceptible to
aminopeptidases degradation and is active mainly against Micrococcus luteus (32
μM). TRP2-TINF is a 10-amino acid peptide with a 310 helix secondary structure
and is susceptible to carboxypeptidases degradation. It has major antimicrobial
activity against both Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Escherichia coli (45 μM).
Neither molecule is toxic to human erythrocytes and both present minor toxicity
toward Vero cells at a concentration of 1000 μM. As the first description of
TKRPs with antimicrobial activity in T. infestans, this work contributes to the
wider comprehension of the insects' physiology and describes pharmacological
relevant molecules.

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1177/1178636120933635 
PMCID: PMC7416138
PMID: 32843839 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests:The
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.

