
1. J Wildl Dis. 2020 May 13. doi: 10.7589/2019-09-224. [Epub ahead of print]

American Dog Ticks (Dermacentor variabilis) as Biological Indicators of an
Association between the Enteric Bacterium Moellerella wisconsensis and Striped
Skunks (Mephitis mephitis) in Southwestern Manitoba, Canada.

Chilton NB(1), Dergousoff SJ(1), Brzezowska V(1), Trost CN(1), Dunlop DR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Saskatchewan, 112 Science Place,
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada S7N 5E2.

Total genomic (g) DNA from 100 American dog ticks (Dermacentor variabilis)
collected from humans, dogs, raccoons, and skunks near Minnedosa (Manitoba,
Canada) in 2005 was tested for the presence of Moellerella wisconsensis
(Gammaproteobacteria: Enterobacteriales) using PCR. Although two gDNA samples
derived from ticks attached to two striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) contained
M. wisconsensis DNA, it is unlikely that D. variabilis is a vector of this
bacterium. Genomic DNA prepared from the washes of the external surfaces of these
two ticks (i.e., before DNA extraction from the whole tick) and another two ticks
attached to same skunks were also PCR positive for M. wisconsensis. This suggests
that ticks acquired the bacterium by physical contact with contaminated or
infected skunks. However, it does not exclude the possibility that the ticks may 
have also imbibed the bacterium from their host blood and lymph. Nonetheless, the
results of this molecular study suggest that the four adult D. variabilis
represent biological indicators of the presence of M. wisconsensis in association
with their vertebrate hosts (i.e., striped skunks). Additional work is needed to 
determine if M. wisconsensis is present in the blood and lymph of striped skunks 
in southwestern Manitoba and if there are potential health risks for persons
coming into contact with infected animals.

DOI: 10.7589/2019-09-224 
PMID: 32402233 

