
1. J Mol Model. 2020 Jul 7;26(8):200. doi: 10.1007/s00894-020-04459-5.

Molecular basis of the beta-lactamase protein using comparative modelling, drug
screening and molecular dynamics studies to understand the resistance of β-lactam
antibiotics.

Alazmi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computer Science, College of Computer Science and Engineering,
University of Ha'il, P.O. Box 2440, Ha'il, 81481, Saudi Arabia.
ms.alazmi@uoh.edu.sa.

Beta-lactamase (ampC) in general causes the onset of antibiotic resistance in
pathogenic bacteria against the β-lactam antibiotics. Morganella morganii which
belongs to the Proteae tribe of the Enterobacteriaceae family is a Gram-negative 
bacillus. Gram-negative bacteria are the key problematic agents among the human
population in overexpressing resistance against β-lactam antibiotics. These
β-lactam antibiotics being experimentally well studied still lack the key
information and mechanism for their resistance. The structural information of the
ampC protein is unknown and poorly studied; hence, it is the need of the hour to 
find effective inhibitors against it. In our study, the prediction of the
three-dimensional structure of ampC protein from Morganella morganii was
performed using a comparative modelling approach. The predicted structure was
energetically stabilized and functional conformations were mapped through 100-ns 
molecular dynamics simulation runs. Also, Ramachandran plot shows the model to be
stereo-chemically stable with most residues found under core allowed regions.
Drug screening with several experimentally tested inhibitors was then confirmed
to check the activity against ampC protein using an AutoDock tool. The results
suggested OncoglabrinolC molecule as the best inhibitor (out of 21 drug
molecules) with a binding affinity of - 11.44 kcal/mol.
Anti-bacterial/anti-parasitic inhibitors have not only been used against
bacterial infections, but later reports have also shown them to work against
deadly viruses such as SARS-CoV2. This key structural and inhibitory information 
is certain to help in the discovery of specific and potent substitute therapeutic
drugs and the development of experimental procedures against human infection.

DOI: 10.1007/s00894-020-04459-5 
PMID: 32638150 

