
1. J Med Microbiol. 2020 Aug;69(8):1089-1094. doi: 10.1099/jmm.0.001235.

Molecular characterization of a novel bla CTX-M-3-carrying Tn6741 transposon in
Morganella morganii isolated from swine.

Luo X(1), Zhai Y(1), He D(1), Cui X(1), Yang Y(1), Yuan L(1), Liu J(1), Hu G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Animal Science and
Veterinary Medicine, Henan Agricultural University, Zhengzhou, PR China.

Introduction. The bla CTX-M-3 gene has rarely been reported in Morganella
morganii strains and its genetic environment has not yet been investigated.Aim.
To identify the bla CTX-M-3 gene in M. morganii isolated from swine and
characterize its genetic environment.Methodology. A M. morganii isolate (named
MM1L5) from a deceased swine was identified using matrix-assisted laser
desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) and
subjected to antimicrobial susceptibility testing. The bla genes were detected
and then the genetic location and environment of bla CTX-M-3 were investigated by
Southern blot and PCR mapping, respectively. The M. morganii bla CTX-M-3 gene was
cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli.Results. Isolate MM1L5 harboured the bla
CTX-M-3 and bla TEM-1 genes. The bla CTX-M-3 gene, located on the chromosome, was
co-carried with an IS26 and bla TEM-1 gene by a novel 6361 bp IS26-flanked
composite transposon, designated Tn6741. This transposon consisted of a novel bla
CTX-M-3-containing module, IS26-ΔISEcp1-bla CTX-M-3-Δorf477-IS26 (named Tn6710), 
and a bla TEM-1-containing module, IS26-Δorf477-bla TEM-1-tnpR-IS26, differing
from previous reports. Phylogenetic analysis showed a significant variation based
on the sequence of Tn6741, as compared to those of other related transposons.
Interestingly, although the cloned bla CTX-M-3 gene could confer resistance to
ceftiofur, cefquinome, ceftriaxone and cefotaxime, one amino acid substitution
(Ile-142-Thr) resulted in a significant reduction of resistance to these
antimicrobials.Conclusion. This is the first time that bla CTX-M-3 has been
identified on a chromosome from a M. morganii isolate. Furthermore, the bla
CTX-M-3 gene was located with an IS26 element and bla TEM-1 gene on a novel
IS26-flanked composite transposon, Tn6741, suggesting that Tn6741 might act as a 
reservoir for the bla CTX-M-3 and bla TEM-1 genes and may become an important
vehicle for their dissemination among M. morganii.

DOI: 10.1099/jmm.0.001235 
PMID: 32692646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

