
1. Clin Drug Investig. 2020 Oct;40(10):901-913. doi: 10.1007/s40261-020-00955-x.

Cefiderocol, a New Siderophore Cephalosporin for the Treatment of Complicated
Urinary Tract Infections Caused by Multidrug-Resistant Pathogens: Preclinical and
Clinical Pharmacokinetics, Pharmacodynamics, Efficacy and Safety.

Lee YR(1), Yeo S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Adult Medicine Division, Jerry H. Hodge
School of Pharmacy, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, 1718 Pine
Street, Abilene, TX, 79601, USA. young.lee@ttuhsc.edu.
(2)Jerry H. Hodge School of Pharmacy, Texas Tech University Health Sciences
Center, Amarillo, TX, USA.

Cefiderocol (FetrojaÂ®) is a siderophore cephalosporin and has demonstrated potent
activity against extended-spectrum beta-lactamases producing Enterobacteriaceae, 
carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae, and nonfermenting Gram-negative bacilli,
including Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, and Acinetobacter
baumannii, Burkholderia cepacia, and Klebsiella pneumoniae. However, cefiderocol 
has limited activity against Gram-positive bacteria and anaerobes like
Bacterodies fragilis. In the APEKS-cUTI study, 183 (73%) of 252 patients in the
cefiderocol group versus 65 (55%) of 119 patients in the imipenem-cilastatin
group achieved the composite outcome of clinical and microbiological eradication 
of Gram-negative bacteria (treatment difference of 18.58%; 95% CI 8.23-28.92, p =
0.0004) in complicated urinary tract infections (cUTIs). Cefiderocol was
non-inferior to imipenem-cilastatin in cUTIs caused by Gram-negative bacteria
such as E. coli, K. pneumoniae, P. aeruginosa, Proteus mirabilis, Enterobacter
cloacae, Morganella morganii, and Citrobacter freundii. Cefiderocol required dose
adjustment in patients with renal impairment and percentage of time that free
drug concentrations above the minimum inhibitory concentration (%fT > MIC) best
correlated with clinical outcomes. The most common adverse events with
cefiderocol were gastrointestinal symptoms such as diarrhea, constipation,
nausea, vomiting, or upper abdominal pain. Two phase III clinical trials, the
CREDIBLE-CR study and the APEKS-NP study, investigated the efficacy and safety of
cefiderocol for the treatment of pneumonia or cUTI, and both studies showed
higher all-cause mortality associated with cefiderocol. Therefore, the use of
cefiderocol should be limited only to the treatment of cUTIs from Gram-negative
bacteria, especially in patients who have limited or no alternative treatment
options.

DOI: 10.1007/s40261-020-00955-x 
PMCID: PMC7374078
PMID: 32700154 

