
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Aug 7;8(8). pii: E1200. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8081200.

Marine Plastics from Norwegian West Coast Carry Potentially Virulent Fish
Pathogens and Opportunistic Human Pathogens Harboring New Variants of Antibiotic 
Resistance Genes.

Radisic V(1)(2), Nimje PS(1), Bienfait AM(1), Marathe NP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Marine Research, 5005 Bergen, Norway.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Bergen, 5006 Bergen, Norway.

To our best knowledge this is the first study characterizing fish pathogens
isolated from marine plastics from the West coast of Norway for their potential
for pathogenicity using whole genome sequencing. Marine plastic polymers
identified as polyethylene, polyethylene/ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer and
polypropylene, yielded a total of 37 bacterial isolates dominated by Pseudomonas 
spp. (70%). Six isolates representing either fish pathogens or opportunistic
human pathogens were selected for whole genome sequencing (WGS). These included
four isolates belonging to Aeromonas spp., one Acinetobacter beijerinckii isolate
and one Morganella morganii isolate. Three Aeromonas salmonicida isolates were
potentially virulent and carried virulence factors involved in attachment, type
II and type VI secretion systems as well as toxins such as aerA/act, ahh1, ast,
hlyA, rtxA and toxA. A. salmonicida and Acinetobacter beijerinckii carried new
variants of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) such as Î²-lactamases and
chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (catB), whereas Morganella morganii carried
several clinically relevant ARGs. Our study shows that marine plastics carry not 
only potentially virulent fish pathogens but also multidrug resistant
opportunistic human pathogens like M. morganii and may serve as vectors for
transport of these pathogens in the marine environment.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8081200 
PMCID: PMC7464100
PMID: 32784594 

