
1. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2020 Aug 29;693:108551. doi: 10.1016/j.abb.2020.108551.
[Epub ahead of print]

A single amino acid substitution converts a histidine decarboxylase to an
imidazole acetaldehyde synthase.

Takeshima D(1), Mori A(1), Ito H(1), Komori H(2), Ueno H(3), Nitta Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutritional Science, Faculty of Health and Welfare Science,
Okayama Prefectural University, 111 Kuboki, Soja-shi, Okayama, 719-1197, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Education, Kagawa University, 1-1 Saiwai-cho, Takamatsu, Kagawa,
760-8522, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Applied Microbiology & Biochemistry, Ryukoku University, Seta,
Ohtsu, Shiga, 520-2194, Japan.
(4)Department of Nutritional Science, Faculty of Health and Welfare Science,
Okayama Prefectural University, 111 Kuboki, Soja-shi, Okayama, 719-1197, Japan.
Electronic address: nitta@fhw.oka-pu.ac.jp.

Histidine decarboxylase (HDC; EC 4.1.1.22), an enzyme that catalyzes histamine
synthesis with high substrate specificity, is a member of the group II pyridoxal 
5'-phosphate (PLP) -dependent decarboxylase family. Tyrosine is a conserved
residue among group II PLP-dependent decarboxylases. Human HDC has a Y334 located
on a catalytically important loop at the active site. In this study, we
demonstrated that a HDC Y334F mutant is capable of catalyzing the
decarboxylation-dependent oxidative deamination of histidine to yield imidazole
acetaldehyde. Replacement of the active-site Tyr with Phe in group II
PLP-dependent decarboxylases, including mammalian aromatic amino acid
decarboxylase, plant tyrosine/DOPA decarboxylase, and plant tryptophan
decarboxylase, is expected to result in the same functional change, given that a 
Y-to-F substitution at the corresponding residue (number 260) in the HDC of
Morganella morganii, another group II PLP-dependent decarboxylase, yielded the
same effect. Thus, it was suggested that the loss of the OH moiety from the
active-site Tyr residue of decarboxylase uniquely converts the enzyme to an
aldehyde synthase.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.abb.2020.108551 
PMID: 32871134 

