
1. ACS Omega. 2020 Sep 1;5(36):23385-23392. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.0c03338.
eCollection 2020 Sep 15.

Correlation of Conservation of Sequence and Structures of Mycobacterial
Hemerythrin-like Proteins with Evolutionary Relationship and Host Pathogenicity.

Ma Z(1), Caldas Nogueira ML(1), Marchi-Salvador DP(2), Davidson VL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences, College of Medicine, University of
Central Florida, 6900 Lake Nona Blvd., Orlando, Florida 32827, United States.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology, Center of Exact and Natural Sciences, Federal
University of Paraiba, João Pessoa, PB, Brazil.

The Rv2633c gene of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which plays a role in infection, 
encodes a hemerythrin-like protein (HLP). The crystal structure of an orthologue 
of Rv2633c, the HLP from Mycobacterium kansasii, revealed that it possessed
structural features that were distinct from other hemerythrins and HLPs. These
and other orthologous proteins comprise a distinct class of non-heme di-iron HLPs
that are only found in mycobacteria. This study presents an analysis and
comparison of protein sequences, putative structures, and evolutionary
relationship of HLPs from 20 mycobacterial species that are known to cause
tuberculosis or pulmonary disorders in humans. The results of this analysis
allowed correlation of the physicochemical characteristics of amino acid residues
that are substituted in these highly conserved sequences with their position in
structures, possible effects on function, and evolutionary relationships. The
sequences of the proteins from M. tuberculosis, Mycobacterium bovis, and other
members of the M. tuberculosis complex, which cause tuberculosis, have
substitutions not seen in the other non-tuberculous mycobacteria. Furthermore,
groups of species that are closely related, based on phylogenetic analysis,
possess substitutions of otherwise conserved residues not seen in other species
that are less related. This information is correlated with the occurrence and
clinical presentations of these groups of mycobacterial species. The results of
this study provide a framework for structure-function studies to determine how
subtle differences in the primary sequences of members of this family of proteins
correlate with their structures and activities and how this may influence the
infectious properties of the host species.

Copyright © 2020 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.0c03338 
PMCID: PMC7496005
PMID: 32954191 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interest.

