
1. Prev Vet Med. 2020 Aug 19;183:105124. doi: 10.1016/j.prevetmed.2020.105124. [Epub
ahead of print]

Bayesian estimation of the true prevalence of paratuberculosis in Hungarian dairy
cattle herds.

Ozsvari L(1), Lang Z(2), Monostori A(3), Kostoulas P(4), Fodor I(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Forensics and Economics, University of Veterinary
Medicine Budapest, Budapest, Hungary. Electronic address:
ozsvari.laszlo@univet.hu.
(2)Department of Biomathematics and Informatics, University of Veterinary
Medicine Budapest, Budapest, Hungary.
(3)Livestock Performance Testing Ltd., Gödöllő, Hungary.
(4)Faculty of Veterinary Science, University of Thessaly, Volos, 43100, Greece.
(5)Department of Veterinary Forensics and Economics, University of Veterinary
Medicine Budapest, Budapest, Hungary.

Paratuberculosis is a chronic incurable disease caused by Mycobacterium avium
subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP), which leads to extensive economic losses on dairy 
farms, and may also pose serious public health risk to the consumers. The aim of 
our study was to estimate the true prevalence of paratuberculosis in commercial
dairy cattle herds participating in a voluntary MAP testing programme that
started in February 2018 in Hungary. Milk samples collected during official milk 
recording were used for MAP ELISA testing. A Bayesian two-stage hierarchical
(herd and animal level) model was fitted to the data. Altogether, 26,437 cows
from 51 herds were sampled, which represents 14.4 % of the Hungarian dairy cow
population. The median herd size was 477 cows (interquartile range: 331-709).
Each studied farm had at least one ELISA positive cow, resulting in a herd-level 
apparent prevalence of 100 %. The overall within herd apparent prevalence was 5.5
%. Herd-level true prevalence was estimated at 89.1 % [95 % credible interval
(CrI): 80.3-95.6%]. Within the infected herds, the median animal-level true
prevalence was 4.4 % (3.2-5.8%) for primiparous and 10.3 % (7.9-12.9%) for
multiparous cows, respectively. The probability of having an animal-level true
prevalence of at least 5% among primiparous cows, within infected herds, was 17.8
%. Similarly, the probability of having an animal-level true prevalence of at
least 5% or 10 % among multiparous cows was 100 % and 56 %, respectively.
Simulations assuming herd-level true prevalence varying from 50 to 100 % revealed
high accuracy of our Bayesian model. Our study showed that a large percentage of 
the studied Hungarian dairy cattle herds was infected with MAP.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prevetmed.2020.105124 
PMID: 32889487 

