
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Sep 24. doi: 10.1007/s00253-020-10909-0. [Epub
ahead of print]

A novel one-day phage-based test for rapid detection and enumeration of viable
Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis in cows' milk.

Foddai ACG(1), Grant IR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Global Food Security, School of Biological Sciences, Queen's
University Belfast, Belfast, Northern Ireland, BT9 5DL, UK.
(2)Institute for Global Food Security, School of Biological Sciences, Queen's
University Belfast, Belfast, Northern Ireland, BT9 5DL, UK. i.grant@qub.ac.uk.

Bacteriophage-based methods for the rapid detection of viable Mycobacterium avium
subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP) in veterinary specimens are a recent addition to
the Johne's disease diagnostic toolbox. Here, we report the use of D29
mycobacteriophage-coated tosylactivated paramagnetic beads to capture and
concentrate MAP cells from samples (termed phagomagnetic separation, PhMS) and
then naturally lyse viable MAP cells (from the inside out) to provide DNA for
IS900 qPCR purposes. Transmission electron microscopy confirmed that D29 phages
had bound to beads in the correct orientation and that the phage-coated beads
captured MAP cells from a suspension. During test optimization, conventional
IS900 PCR results were used to subjectively assess the effect of different
phage:bead coating ratios, differing amounts of coated beads during PhMS, optimal
incubation time post-PhMS to obtain maximal MAP DNA, and the potential benefit of
a brief heat shock (55 °C/1 min) prior to IS900 TaqMan qPCR. The limit of
detection 50% (LOD50%) of the optimised PhMS-qPCR assay was 10.00 MAP cells/50 ml
milk (95% CI 1.20-82.83). Finally, in order to demonstrate the new assay's
ability to detect viable MAP in naturally contaminated milk, bulk tank milk
samples from 100 dairy farms were tested. Forty-nine (49%) of these tested
PhMS-qPCR-positive, with viable MAP numbers detected ranging from 3-126
MAP/50 ml. The novel PhMS-qPCR assay is a sensitive, specific and easy-to-apply
phage-based assay for viable MAP, with potential application for milk
surveillance or diagnosis of Johne's disease. KEY POINTS: • Phage-coated magnetic
beads could capture, concentrate and lyse MAP cells from milk. • PhMS-qPCR assay 
proved to be a rapid, sensitive and specific test for viable MAP. • A potential
application of PhMS-qPCR assay for milk surveillance was demonstrated.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10909-0 
PMID: 32970181 

