
1. Microbiol Res. 2020 Aug 21;241:126587. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126587. [Epub
ahead of print]

3-D printed polyvinyl alcohol matrix for detection of airborne pathogens in
respiratory bacterial infections.

Al-Taie A(1), Han X(2), Williams CM(3), Abdulwhhab M(3), Abbott AP(4), Goddard
A(4), Wegrzyn M(3), Garton NJ(3), Barer MR(3), Pan J(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Engineering, University of Leicester, Leicester, LE1 7RH, UK;
Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering, Al-Nahrain
University, Baghdad, Iraq. Electronic address: alualt_1982@yahoo.com.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Advanced Design and Manufacturing for Vehicle Body,
Hunan University, 410082, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Leicester, Leicester, LE1 7RH, UK.
(5)School of Engineering, University of Leicester, Leicester, LE1 7RH, UK.

Novel sampling matrices were manufactured using 3D printing for the detection of 
respiratory pathogens in expired air. A specific configuration of the matrices
was designed using Computer-Aided Design software. Polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) was
printed using fused deposition modelling to create a multilayer matrix to enhance
the capture of bacteria. The performance of these matrices was compared with
gelatine filters that have been used for this work to date. PVA matrices (60 mm
diameter) were contaminated with bacteria either by direct inoculation, or by
aerosol exposure using an Omron A3 nebuliser. Rough and smooth morphotypes of
Mycobacterium abscessus, M. smegmatis and M. bovis BCG, were used in this study
to contaminate the matrices. PVA matrices and gelatine sampling filters were
contaminated to compare recovery rates for quantitative analyses. These were
dissolved in water, bacteria pelleted and DNA extracted followed by a
Mycobacterium-specific quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (qPCR).The results 
showed that 3D printed PVA matrices are very effective to capture the bacteria.
3D printed PVA matrix and gelatine filters yielded results of the same order of
magnitude for mycobacterial analyses, however, PVA matrix offers several
advantages over the latter material. 3D printed PVA is considered as an economic 
and time-effective matrix as it is cheaper than gelatine filters. PVA is
sufficiently robust to be handled and loaded into the surgical masks for
sampling, compared to the brittle gelatine filters that required supportive
frames. PVA is a synthetic material and it is suitable for DNA-based analyses,
whilst gelatine is derived from animal collagen, and carries a high bacterial DNA
background that interferes with the target DNA analysis. Furthermore, PVA
dissolves in distilled water without requiring chemicals or enzymes, such as the 
case for gelatine hydrolysis. To summarise, 3D printed PVA sampling matrix is
considered a promising tool used for microbiological diagnostic purposes.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126587 
PMID: 32927205 

