
1. Infect Drug Resist. 2020 Aug 18;13:2883-2890. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S267552.
eCollection 2020.

Zinc Chelator N,N,N',N'-Tetrakis(2-Pyridylmethyl)Ethylenediamine Reduces the
Resistance of Mycobacterium abscessus to Imipenem.

He S(#)(1)(2), Zou Y(#)(1)(2), Zhan M(#)(1)(2), Guo Q(1)(2), Zhang Y(1)(2), Zhang
Z(1), Li B(1), Zhang S(1), Chu H(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Tongji
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200433, People's Republic of China.
(2)Tongji University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200092, People's Republic of
China.
(3)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Tuberculosis, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Tongji
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200433, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Purpose: Imipenem is one of the very few effective options for treating
Mycobacterium abscessus (M. abscessus) infections; the development of imipenem
resistance is a major health concern.
Materials and Methods: The susceptibility of 194 clinical M. abscessus isolates
to imipenem was determined. The ability of imipenem to synergize with
N,N,N',N'-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)ethylenediamine (TPEN), a zinc chelator and a 
metallo-β-lactamases (MBLs) inhibitor, to inhibit M. abscessus growth was also
assessed.
Results: M. abscessus exhibited an elevated resistance to imipenem (MIC50 = 16
mg/L, MIC90 = 64 mg/L). A combination of TPEN and imipenem synergized to inhibit 
the growth of 100% of imipenem-resistant and 79.2% of imipenem-resistance
intermediate isolates; no synergy was observed treating imipenem-sensitive
isolates. A remarkable decrease in the MIC50 (from 16 to 4 mg/L) and MIC90 (from 
64 to 8 mg/L) of imipenem was observed when it was combined with TPEN; the
portion of imipenem-resistant isolates also decreased (from 48.4% to 0%).
Consistent with these results demonstrating synergy, a time-kill assay showed the
addition of TPEN significantly improved the bactericidal activity of imipenem
toward M. abscessus. Similarly, EDTA (a potent MBLs inhibitor) promoted the
anti-M. abscessus activity of imipenem in a disk assay, corroborating the effect 
of TPEN and supporting the role of MBLs in imipenem resistance exhibited by some 
isolates.
Conclusion: These findings demonstrate that TPEN can reduce the resistance of M. 
abscessus to imipenem and suggest that the inhibition of MBLs activity is the
underlying mechanism.

© 2020 He et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S267552 
PMCID: PMC7445496
PMID: 32903882 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest for
this work.

