
1. Comp Immunol Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 Aug 24;73:101533. doi:
10.1016/j.cimid.2020.101533. [Epub ahead of print]

Prevalence of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) infection in 
suspected diarrhoeic buffaloes and cattle reporting at Veterinary University in
India.

Sharma S(1), Gautam A(2), Singh SV(3), Chaubey KK(3), Mehta R(2), Gupta S(3),
Sharma M(4), Rose MK(2), Jain VK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Physiology and Biochemistry, Lala Lajpat Rai
University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Hisar, 125004, Haryana, India;
Department of Veterinary Clinical Complex, Lala Lajpat Rai University of
Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Hisar, 125004, Haryana, India. Electronic
address: shalinisharma12_vet@yahoo.co.in.
(2)Department of Veterinary Physiology and Biochemistry, Lala Lajpat Rai
University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Hisar, 125004, Haryana, India.
(3)Department of Bio-technology, GLA University, Post-Chaumuhan, Dist., Mathura, 
Uttar Pradesh, 281 406, India.
(4)Department of Veterinary Clinical Complex, Lala Lajpat Rai University of
Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Hisar, 125004, Haryana, India.

Murrah buffaloes, best breed for milk production are native of Haryana state.
They contributes significantly to the farmer's income, livelihood and food (milk 
and meat) security, in the semi-tropical regions of North India. Johne's disease 
though endemic in the domestic livestock of the country, but reports are not
available in the buffaloes suffering from morbidity due to progressive weakness
and diarrhoea. We estimated the status of JD in diarrhoeic buffaloes and cattle
reporting at Veterinary Clinical Complex of Lala Lajpat Rai University of
Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Hisar, Haryana, India, using conventional,
serological and PCR assays.141 buffaloes suffering from chronic diarrhoea were
screened to estimate sero-prevalence of MAP and 50.0 % young and 53.52 % adult
animals were positive. Of 14 cattle screened, none of the young and 66.6 % adult 
cows were positive. In buffaloes, 66.1 and 6.77 %, fecal samples were positive in
microscopy and IS900 PCR, respectively. Sero-prevalence of JD was very high in
diarrhoeic buffaloes and cattle from Haryana state of India.Buffaloes positive
for Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) infection had reduced
total leukocyte count and lymphocytes.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cimid.2020.101533 
PMID: 32927297 

