
1. Vet Immunol Immunopathol. 2020 Oct;228:110112. doi: 10.1016/j.vetimm.2020.110112.
Epub 2020 Aug 21.

Development of a flow cytometry assay for bovine interleukin-2 and its
preliminary application in bovine tuberculosis detection.

Xia A(1), Xu Z(2), Hu T(1), Li X(2), Zhu Z(1), Chen X(3), Jiao X(4).

Author information: 
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Zoonosis/Jiangsu Co-Innovation Center for Prevention
and Control of Important Animal Infectious Diseases and Zoonoses, Yangzhou
University, Yangzhou 225009, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Prevention and Control of Biological Hazard Factors (Animal 
Origin) for Agrifood Safety and Quality, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Affairs, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou 225009, China.
(3)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Zoonosis/Jiangsu Co-Innovation Center for Prevention
and Control of Important Animal Infectious Diseases and Zoonoses, Yangzhou
University, Yangzhou 225009, China. Electronic address: chenxiang@yzu.edu.cn.
(4)Key Laboratory of Prevention and Control of Biological Hazard Factors (Animal 
Origin) for Agrifood Safety and Quality, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Affairs, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou 225009, China. Electronic address:
jiao@yzu.edu.cn.

Mycobacterium bovis, the causative agent of bovine tuberculosis (bTB), poses a
risk of infection for livestock, humans, and wildlife. An interferon (IFN)-γ
release assay has been used with tuberculin skin tests to detect bTB; however,
infected animals may still be missed. Previous studies have suggested that bovine
interleukin-2 (BoIL-2) may act as a potential biological marker for the diagnosis
of bovine infectious diseases. However, a detailed evaluation of IL-2 as a
diagnostic target for bTB is lacking. Therefore, we established hybridoma cell
lines that produced monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) recognizing the native BoIL-2
and developed a flow cytometry assay, based on the BoIL-2 mAbs, for detecting M. 
bovis-specific IL-2. Subsequently, the method was utilized for a preliminary
investigation of bTB in cattle; significantly (P < 0.0001) more CD4+IL-2+ T cells
were detected in infected cattle than in healthy animals when a specific
mycobacterial antigen CFP-10-ESAT-6 fusion protein was used. Moreover, our method
demonstrated high coincidence rates with the BOVIGAM® test and an IFN-γ flow
cytometry assay for the diagnosis of bTB. These findings show that the present
method may be useful for detecting bTB.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetimm.2020.110112 
PMID: 32892112 

