
1. J Clin Med. 2020 Sep 14;9(9). pii: E2968. doi: 10.3390/jcm9092968.

Outcomes of Inhaled Amikacin and Clofazimine-Containing Regimens for Treatment of
Refractory Mycobacterium avium Complex Pulmonary Disease.

Kim BG(1), Kim H(1), Kwon OJ(1), Huh HJ(2), Lee NY(2), Baek SY(3), Sohn I(3),
Jhun BW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Medicine,
Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul 06351, 
Korea.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Genetics, Samsung Medical Center,
Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul 06351, Korea.
(3)Statistics and Data Center, Research Institute for Future Medicine, Samsung
Medical Center, Seoul 06351, Korea.

Limited data are available regarding optimal treatment for refractory
Mycobacterium avium complex-pulmonary disease (MAC-PD). We evaluated outcomes of 
inhaled amikacin (AMK) with clofazimine (CFZ) regimens as an add-on salvage
therapy for refractory MAC-PD. We retrospectively analyzed 52 patients with
refractory MAC-PD, characterized by persistently positive sputum cultures despite
>6 months of treatment. Thirty-five (67%) patients had M. intracellulare-PD, and 
17 (33%) patients had M. avium-PD. Twenty-seven (52%) patients received the
salvage therapy for ≥12 months, whereas 25 (48%) patients were treated for <12
months due to adverse effects or other reasons. Seventeen (33%) patients had
culture conversion: 10 (10/27) in the ≥12-month treatment group and seven (7/25) 
in the <12-month treatment group (p = 0.488). Microbiological cure, defined as
maintenance of culture negativity, was achieved in 12 (23%) patients; six (6/12) 
with accompanying symptomatic improvement were considered to have reached cure.
Clinical cure, defined as symptomatic improvement with <3 consecutive negative
cultures, was achieved in three (6%) patients. Overall, 15 (29%) patients
achieved favorable outcomes, including microbiological cure, cure, and clinical
cure. Inhaled AMK with CFZ may provide favorable outcomes in some patients with
refractory MAC-PD. However, given the adverse effects, more effective strategies 
are needed to maintain these therapeutic regimens.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm9092968 
PMID: 32937940 

