
1. Anim Biotechnol. 2020 Sep 28:1-8. doi: 10.1080/10495398.2020.1823400. [Epub ahead
of print]

Association of genetic variability in CD209 gene with bovine paratuberculosis
disease: a case-control study in the Indian cattle population.

Kumar S(1)(2), Kumar S(1), Singh RV(1), Chauhan A(1), Kumar A(1), Bharati J(3),
Singh SV(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Animal Genetics and Breeding, ICAR Indian Veterinary Research
Institute, Bareilly, India.
(2)Animal Genetics and Breeding, ICAR National Research Centre on Pig, Guwahati, 
India.
(3)Animal Physiology, ICAR National Research Centre on Pig, Guwahati, India.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, GLA university, Mathura, India.

This study aimed to explore the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs) in CD209 gene with the occurrence of bovine paratuberculosis (PTB) disease
caused by Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) in Indian cattle.
A total of 213 animals were preliminarily selected on the basis of physical body 
condition score, which was then screened by a panel of diagnostic tests viz.
Johnin, ELISA, fecal microscopy, and fecal culture, for the establishment of a
case-control resource population. A total of four SNPs viz. rs208222804,
rs211654540, rs208814257, and rs210748127 in CD209 gene were genotyped by
PCR-RFLP. All SNPs, except rs210748127, were polymorphic in our population.
Genotypic-phenotypic associations were assessed by the PROCLOGISTIC procedure of 
SAS 9.3. The SNP rs208814257 yielded three genotypes viz. CC, CG, and GG, which
were significantly (p < 0.05) different in case as compared to the control
population. The odds of CC and CG in comparison to GG genotype were 1.21 and
0.40, respectively. The CG genotype was significantly higher in control
population, indicating that this genotype may provide resistance against PTB in
our resource population. Upon validation in an independent, larger test
population and following biological characterization, SNP rs208814257 can be
incorporated in marker panel for selection of animals with greater resistance to 
MAP infection.

DOI: 10.1080/10495398.2020.1823400 
PMID: 32985930 

