
1. J Clin Microbiol. 2020 Sep 16. pii: JCM.01761-20. doi: 10.1128/JCM.01761-20.
[Epub ahead of print]

A Novel Real-time PCR-based Screening Test with Pooled Faecal Samples for Bovine 
Johne's Disease.

Kawaji S(1), Nagata R(2), Minegishi Y(3), Saruyama Y(4), Mita A(5), Kishizuka
S(5), Saito M(5), Mori Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Bacterial and Parasitic Disease, National Institute of Animal
Health, National Agriculture and Food Research Organization, Tsukuba, Japan
skawaji@affrc.go.jp.
(2)Division of Bacterial and Parasitic Disease, National Institute of Animal
Health, National Agriculture and Food Research Organization, Tsukuba, Japan.
(3)Nippon Gene Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Tochigi Prefectural Central Livestock Hygiene Service Center, Utsunomiya,
Japan.
(5)National Livestock Breeding Center, Nishigo, Japan.

Johne's disease (JD) is an economically important infectious disease in livestock
farming caused by Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP). As an
alternative to serological tests, which are mainly used for the screening of
whole herds, we developed a novel ResoLight-based real-time PCR (RL-PCR) assay
with pooled faecal samples for the detection of faecal shedders in cattle herds. 
The RL-PCR assay included an internal amplification control (IC) which was
amplified using the same primer pair as the target molecule MAP IS900 and
differentiated based on melting temperatures. Individual faecal suspensions were 
pooled and concentrated by centrifugation to avoid loss of sensitivity by
dilution effect. Combined with a DNA extraction kit (Johne-PureSpin, FASMAC), no 
inhibition of PCR amplification was observed with up to 15 faecal samples in a
pool. The detection limit of RL-PCR at a pool size of 10 was 10 MAP organisms per
gram of faeces, which was comparable to individual testing. A total of 2,654
animals in 12 infected herds were screened by individual antibody-ELISA and the
RL-PCR assay using pooled faeces. Fifty animals were diagnosed with JD through
the screening by RL-PCR, compared to only 5 by ELISA (which were also positive in
RL-PCR). In 7 JD free herds, the results of 4 out of 327 pools (1.2%) were
invalid due to the lack of IC amplification, and then animals were confirmed
negative individually. Our results suggest that implementation of herd screening 
by pooled RL-PCR would advance the monitoring and control of JD in cattle herds.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.01761-20 
PMID: 32938740 

