
1. Indian J Tuberc. 2020 Jul;67(3):371-373. doi: 10.1016/j.ijtb.2019.09.002. Epub
2019 Sep 8.

Misleading of the diagnosis of Mycobacterium attributed lung diseases to
malignancy due to smear, culture and PCR negative results: A lesson from a case
report.

Navid S(1), Arzhang S(2), Mirzaei A(1), Kefayat A(3), Naderi Z(4).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Bacteriology and Virology, Isfahan
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Medical Plants Research Center, Basic Health Sciences Institute, Shahrekord
University of Medical Sciences, Shahrekord, Iran.
(3)Department of Oncology, Cancer Prevention Research Center, Isfahan University 
of Medical Sciences, Isfahan 81746-73461, Iran. Electronic address:
Ahkefayat@yahoo.com.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences,
Isfahan, Iran. Electronic address: z_naderi@med.mui.ac.ir.

The incidence of non-tuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) attributed diseases are
rising and they are responsible for an increasing proportion of mycobacterial
diseases, worldwide. However, their diagnosis is still a big challenge. In this
study, a 77-year-old diabetic woman with familial history of lung cancer and 40
pack/year smoking history was presented. She described significant weight loss,
shortness of breath, yellow productive sputum, fever, and chills from 4 months
ago. The empirical antibiotic therapy didn't cause a significant improvement in
the patient's health condition. Also, the sputum smear, culture, and polymerase
chain reaction-based (PCR) tests were negative for Mycobacterium tuberculosis
(MTB). Computed tomography scanning identified a consolidation at the right upper
lobe which was susceptible to malignancy. Non-caseous granulomatous inflammation 
with the presence of acid-fast bacillus was detected in the biopsies. Therefore, 
the patient's sputum was reexamined. Although PCR was negative, both smear and
culture became positive. PCR-based amplification of a 596 bp fragment of 16S rRNA
gene of the isolated bacteria, followed by almost full 16S rRNA sequencing,
identified the Mycobacterium fortuitum strain. No malignant cell was detected at 
pathology evaluations. Due to the increase of NTM attributed diseases which can
exhibit negative PCR for MTB and low reliability of negative results of sputum
smear and culture, multiple repetitions of the sputum evaluations and, utilizing 
from 16S rRNA sequencing is recommended to diagnose NTM related lung disease.

Copyright Â© 2019 Tuberculosis Association of India. Published by Elsevier B.V.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijtb.2019.09.002 
PMID: 32825871 

