
1. Acta Crystallogr F Struct Biol Commun. 2020 Oct 1;76(Pt 10):488-494. doi:
10.1107/S2053230X20011875. Epub 2020 Sep 16.

Crystal structure of XCC3289 from Xanthomonas campestris: homology with the
N-terminal substrate-binding domain of Lon peptidase.

Singh R(1), Deshmukh S(1), Kumar A(1), Goyal VD(1), Makde RD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Beamline Development and Application Section, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre,
Mumbai 400 085, India.

LonA peptidase is a major component of the protein quality-control mechanism in
both prokaryotes and the organelles of eukaryotes. Proteins homologous to the
N-terminal domain of LonA peptidase, but lacking its other domains, are conserved
in several phyla of prokaryotes, including the Xanthomonadales order. However,
the function of these homologous proteins (LonNTD-like proteins) is not known.
Here, the crystal structure of the LonNTD-like protein from Xanthomonas
campestris (XCC3289; UniProt Q8P5P7) is reported at 2.8 Å resolution. The
structure was solved by molecular replacement and contains one polypeptide in the
asymmetric unit. The structure was refined to an Rfree of 29%. The structure of
XCC3289 consists of two domains joined by a long loop. The N-terminal domain
(residues 1-112) consists of an α-helix surrounded by β-sheets, whereas the
C-terminal domain (residues 123-193) is an α-helical bundle. The fold and spatial
orientation of the two domains closely resembles those of the N-terminal domains 
of the LonA peptidases from Escherichia coli and Mycobacterium avium. The
structure is also similar to that of cereblon, a substrate-recognizing component 
of the E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. The N-terminal domains of both LonA and
cereblon are known to be involved in specific protein-protein interactions. This 
structural analysis suggests that XCC3289 and other LonNTD-like proteins might
also be capable of such protein-protein interactions.

DOI: 10.1107/S2053230X20011875 
PMID: 33006577 

