
1. Prev Vet Med. 2020 Sep 16;183:105152. doi: 10.1016/j.prevetmed.2020.105152. [Epub
ahead of print]

Modelling spread and surveillance of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis 
in the Swedish cattle trade network.

Rosendal T(1), Widgren S(2), Ståhl K(2), Frössling J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Disease Control and Epidemiology, National Veterinary Institute 
(SVA), SE-751 89 Uppsala, Sweden. Electronic address: thomas.rosendal@sva.se.
(2)Department of Disease Control and Epidemiology, National Veterinary Institute 
(SVA), SE-751 89 Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)Department of Disease Control and Epidemiology, National Veterinary Institute 
(SVA), SE-751 89 Uppsala, Sweden; Department of Animal Environment and Health,
Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, PO Box 234, SE-532 23 Skara, Sweden.

To monitor a state of disease freedom and to ensure a timely detection of new
introductions of disease, surveillance programmes need be evaluated prior to
implementation. We present a strategy to evaluate surveillance of Mycobacterium
avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP) using simulated testing of bulk milk in an
infectious disease spread model. MAP is a globally distributed, chronic
infectious disease with substantial animal health impact. Designing surveillance 
for this disease poses specific challenges because methods for surveillance
evaluation have focused on estimating surveillance system sensitivity and
probability of freedom from disease and do not account for spread of disease or
complex and changing population structure over long periods. The aims of the
study were to 1. define a model that describes the spread of MAP within and
between Swedish herds; 2. define a method for simulation of imperfect diagnostic 
testing in this framework; 3. to compare surveillance strategies to support
surveillance design choices. The results illustrate how this approach can be used
to identify differences between the probability of detecting disease in the
population based on choices of the number of herds sampled and the use of
risk-based or random selection of these herds. The approach was also used to
assess surveillance to detect introduction of disease and to detect a very low
prevalence endemic state. The use of bulk milk sampling was determined to be an
effective method to detect MAP in the population with as few as 500 herds tested 
per year if the herd-level prevalence was 0.2 %. However, detection of point
introductions in the population was unlikely in the 13-year simulation period
even if as many as 2000 herds were tested per year. Interestingly, the use of a
risk-based selection strategy was found to be a disadvantage to detect MAP given 
the modelled disease dynamics.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prevetmed.2020.105152 
PMCID: PMC7493800
PMID: 32979661 

