
1. Comp Immunol Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 Aug 7:101526. doi:
10.1016/j.cimid.2020.101526. [Epub ahead of print]

Ovine Paratuberculosis: Seroprevalence and comparison of fecal culture and direct
fecal PCR assay.

Selim A(1), Abdelhady A(2), Abdelrahman A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Medicine (Infectious Diseases), Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, Benha University, Egypt. Electronic address:
Abdelfattah.selim@fvtm.bu.edu.eg.
(2)Department of Parasitology and Animal Diseases, National Research Center,
Dokki, Giza, Egypt.
(3)Animal Medicine Department (Infectious Diseases), Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, Alexandria University, Egypt.

Johne's disease is chronic, incurable disease, caused by Mycobacterium avium
subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP). Most studies in Egypt focused on incidence of the 
disease in cattle but few studies were reported presence of antibodies against
MAP in sheep. The present study determined the seroprevalence rate of MAP among
sheep in four Governorates and assessed the associated risk factors to
MAP-infection. The seroprevalence rate of MAP among sheep was non-significant
varied between different Governorates, it was ranged between 3.75%-12.3%. The
results revealed that the seroprevalence rate of the disease was significantly
increased in diarrheic sheep (11 %, 95 %CI: 7.2-16.2) during spring (15 %, 95
%CI: 8.3-25) and summer (8%, 95 %CI: 4.13-13.8) seasons. Contrary, the age of
sheep and contact with other ruminants like cattle or goats had non-significant
effect of spreading of MAP-infection among sheep. The detection of MAP in feces
of sheep was carried out using culture and PCR to determine the efficiency of
both tests. The kappa test revealed good agreement between both tests for
detection of MAP. The obtained finding confirms the presence of MAP among sheep
in Egypt. So, the appropriate control measures should be taken to reduce
spreading of the disease among sheep and reduce its economic losses.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cimid.2020.101526 
PMID: 32861473 

