
1. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2020 Jun 10;14:2287-2294. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S146111.
eCollection 2020.

The Use of Amikacin Liposome Inhalation Suspension (Arikayce) in the Treatment of
Refractory Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung Disease in Adults.

Khan O(1), Chaudary N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary Disease and Critical Care Medicine, Department of
Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA.

Nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) can cause and perpetuate chronic inflammation
and lung infection. Despite having the diagnostic criteria, as defined by the
American Thoracic Society (ATS) and Infectious Diseases Society of America
(IDSA), clinicians find it challenging to diagnose and treat NTM-induced lung
disease. Inhaled antibiotics are suitable for patients with lung infection caused
by Pseudomonas aeruginosa and other organisms, but until recently, their utility 
in NTM-induced infection was not established. The most common NTM pathogens
identified are the slow-growing Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) and the
rapid-growing M. abscessus complex (MABSC), both of which include several
subspecies. Other less commonly isolated species include M. kansasii, M. simiae, 
and M. fortuitum. NTM strains are frequently more resistant than what is found in
bacterial sputum cultures. Until recently, there was no approved inhaled
antibiotic therapy for patients who were culture positive for pulmonary NTM
infection. Of late, inhaled amikacin has been under investigation for the
treatment of NTM-induced pulmonary infection. The FDA approved Arikayce (amikacin
liposome inhalation suspension or ALIS) based on results from the ongoing Phase 3
CONVERT trial. In this study, the use of Arikayce met its primary endpoint of
sputum culture conversion by the sixth month of treatment. The addition of
Arikayce to guideline-based therapy led to negative sputum cultures for NTM by
month 6 in 29% of patients compared to 8.9% of patients treated with
guideline-based therapy alone. The effectiveness of Arikayce holds promise.
However, due to limited data on Arikayce's safety, it is currently useful only
for a specific population, particularly patients with refractory NTM-induced lung
disease. Future trials must verify the target group and endorse the clinical
benefits of Arikayce.

Â© 2020 Khan and Chaudary.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S146111 
PMCID: PMC7293904
PMID: 32606598 

Conflict of interest statement: Omer Khan works as a research volunteer with Dr. 
Chaudary. Dr. Chaudary is an Associate Professor of Medicine and Director of the 
Adult Cystic Fibrosis Center at Virginia Commonwealth University Medical Center. 
Dr. Chaudary reports grants from CF Foundation, advisor for PARI Advisory Board, 
peer connect PV consultant for PARI PV Briefing, and provided CME talk for
Abcomm. The authors report no other conflicts of interest in this work.

