
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Aug 27;21(17). pii: E6202. doi: 10.3390/ijms21176202.

MmpL3 Inhibition: A New Approach to Treat Nontuberculous Mycobacterial
Infections.

Sethiya JP(1), Sowards MA(1), Jackson M(2), North EJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy Sciences, School of Pharmacy & Health Professions,
Creighton University, Omaha, NE 68178, USA.
(2)Mycobacteria Research Laboratories, Department of Microbiology, Immunology and
Pathology, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523, USA.

Outside of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Mycobacterium leprae, nontuberculous
mycobacteria (NTM) are environmental mycobacteria (>190 species) and are
classified as slow- or rapid-growing mycobacteria. Infections caused by NTM show 
an increased incidence in immunocompromised patients and patients with underlying
structural lung disease. The true global prevalence of NTM infections remains
unknown because many countries do not require mandatory reporting of the
infection. This is coupled with a challenging diagnosis and identification of the
species. Current therapies for treatment of NTM infections require multidrug
regimens for a minimum of 18 months and are associated with serious adverse
reactions, infection relapse, and high reinfection rates, necessitating discovery
of novel antimycobacterial agents. Robust drug discovery processes have
discovered inhibitors targeting mycobacterial membrane protein large 3 (MmpL3), a
protein responsible for translocating mycolic acids from the inner membrane to
periplasm in the biosynthesis of the mycobacterial cell membrane. This review
focuses on promising new chemical scaffolds that inhibit MmpL3 function and
represent interesting and promising putative drug candidates for the treatment of
NTM infections. Additionally, agents (FS-1, SMARt-420, C10) that promote
reversion of drug resistance are also reviewed.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21176202 
PMCID: PMC7503588
PMID: 32867307 

