
1. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2020 Aug;145(16):1145-1151. doi: 10.1055/s-0043-124159.
Epub 2020 Aug 13.

[Nontuberculous mycobacterial pulmonary disease - The new ATS/ERS/ESCMID/IDSA
Guideline].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Wagner D(1), Lange C(2)(3)(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Infektiologie, Klinik für Innere Medizin II, Universitätsklinikum
Freiburg.
(2)Medizinische Klinik, Forschungszentrum Borstel, Leibniz Lungenzentrum.
(3)Tuberkulose Unit, Deutsches Zentrum für Infektionsforschung (DZIF),
Braunschweig.
(4)Respiratory Medicine & International Health, Universität zu Lübeck.
(5)Karolinska-Institut, Stockholm, Schweden.

The new ATS/ERS/ESCMID/IDSA guideline answers 22 PICO questions on the treatment 
of lung diseases caused by Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), M. kansasii, M.
xenopi and M. abscessus.NON-TUBERCULOUS MYCOBACTERIA (NTM) LUNG DISEASE:
 Especially in patients with microscopic detection of acid-fast bacteria in
sputum or with cavernous disease manifestation, the start of treatment should not
be delayed. Treatment should be based on species-specific resistance testing
(according to the CLSI guidelines). In selected patients, adjuvant surgical
resection after consultation with an expert is recommended.
MAC LUNG DISEASE:  Therapy is based on a regimen with at least three drugs
including a macrolide (rather azithromycin than clarithromycin) and ethambutol.
For patients with cavitation, with pronounced nodular bronchiectatic disease or
with macrolide resistance, daily oral therapy should be expanded by parenteral
amikacin or streptomycin. Liposomally encapsulated amikacin for inhalation is
recommended in patients with treatment failure. Patients with
nodular-bronchiectatic disease manifestation should receive oral macrolide-based 
therapy, which - depending on the extent - can be given 3 times a week. The
recommended duration is 12 months after conversion of the sputum culture. M.
KANSASII LUNG DISEASE:  The triple combination of rifampicin, ethambutol and
macrolide (or isoniazid) is recommended for at least 12 months. In patients with 
rifampicin resistance or intolerance, moxifloxacin is recommended as a
replacement. M.
XENOPI LUNG DISEASE:  The combination of rifampicin, ethambutol and macrolide
(and/or moxifloxacin) is recommended for at least 12 months after conversion of
the sputum culture. For patients with cavernous disease manifestation, it is
recommended to add at least parenteral amikacin and to consult experts. M.
ABSCESSUS LUNG DISEASE:  At least 3, in the beginning rather 4 drugs are
recommended for therapy. The choice of substance should be based on a in vitro
resistance test. Macrolides are the basis, but should not be counted in patients 
with strains with inducible macrolide resistance. Due to the lack of data, no
explicit recommendations are made regarding the duration of therapy; a
consultation of experts is recommended.

Publisher: Die neue ATS/ERS/ESCMID/IDSA-Leitlinie beantwortet 22 PICO Fragen zur 
Behandlung von Erkrankungen der Lunge durch Mycobacterium avium-Komplex (MAC), M.
kansasii, M. xenopi und M. abscessus. Insbesondere bei Patienten mit
mikroskopischem Nachweis säurefester Stäbchen im Sputum oder kavernöser
Verlaufsform sollte der Behandlungsbeginn nicht verzögert werden. Die Behandlung 
sollte auf einer speziesspezifischen Resistenztestung (entsprechend den
CLSI-Guidelines) basieren. Die Therapie erfolgt hier mit mindestens 3
Medikamenten inklusive einem Makrolid (eher Azithromycin als Clarithromycin) und 
Ethambutol. Für Patienten mit kavitärer, mit ausgeprägter
nodulär-bronchiektatischer Erkrankung oder mit Makrolid-Resistenz wird zur
täglichen oralen Therapie eine additive Gabe von parenteralem Amikacin oder
Streptomycin empfohlen. Liposomal verkapseltes inhalatives Amikacin wird bei
Therapieversagen empfohlen. Patienten mit nodulär-bronchiektatischer
Erkrankungsmanifestation sollten eine orale Makrolid-basierte Therapie, die – je 
nach Ausmaß – 3-mal/Woche gegeben werden kann, erhalten. Als Dauer werden 12
Monate nach Konversion der Sputumkultur empfohlen. M. Empfohlen ist die
Dreifachkombination aus Rifampicin, Ethambutol und Makrolid (oder Isoniazid) für 
mindestens 12 Monate. Bei Rifampicin-Resistenz oder -unverträglichkeit wird
Moxifloxacin als Ersatz empfohlen. M. Empfohlen ist die Dreifachkombination aus
Rifampicin, Ethambutol und Makrolid (oder Moxifloxacin) für mindestens 12 Monate 
nach Konversion der Sputumkultur. Es wird empfohlen, bei Patienten mit kavernöser
Verlaufsform zumindest parenterales Amikacin zu addieren und Experten zu
konsultieren. M. Mindestens 3 Medikamente werden zur Therapie empfohlen. Die
Substanzauswahl sollte auf einer In-vitro-Resistenztestung basieren. Makrolide
sind die Grundlage, sollten aber bei Stämmen mit induzierbarer Makrolidresistenz 
nicht mitgerechnet werden. Zur Therapiedauer werden aufgrund fehlender Daten
keine expliziten Empfehlungen ausgesprochen, eine Konsultation von Experten wird 
empfohlen.
© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0043-124159 
PMID: 32791550 

Conflict of interest statement: Dirk Wagner hat an klinischen Studien zu
Patienten mit NTM-Lungenerkrankung der Firma Insmed mitgewirkt. Christoph Lange
hat für Berlin Chemie, Chiesi, Gilead, Janssen, Lucane, und Novartis Vorträge
gehalten und war Mitglied des Advisory Committees für Oxford Immunotec. Diese
Aktivitäten stehen mit den Empfehlungen nicht in Verbindung.

