
1. Brief Bioinform. 2020 Sep 8. pii: bbaa195. doi: 10.1093/bib/bbaa195. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Discerning novel drug targets for treating Mycobacterium avium ss.
paratuberculosis-associated autoimmune disorders: an in silico approach.

Garg A, Singhal N, Kumar M.

Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) exhibits 'molecular
mimicry' with the human host resulting in several autoimmune diseases such as
multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM), Hashimoto's thyroiditis,
Crohn's disease (CD), etc. The conventional therapy for autoimmune diseases
includes immunosuppressants or immunomodulators that treat the symptoms rather
than the etiology and/or causative mechanism(s). Eliminating MAP-the
etiopathological agent might be a better strategy to treat MAP-associated
autoimmune diseases. In this case study, we conducted a systematic in silico
analysis to identify the metabolic chokepoints of MAP's mimicry proteins and
their interacting partners. The probable inhibitors of chokepoint proteins were
identified using DrugBank. DrugBank molecules were stringently screened and
molecular interactions were analyzed by molecular docking and 'off-target'
binding. Thus, we identified 18 metabolic chokepoints of MAP mimicry proteins and
13 DrugBank molecules that could inhibit three chokepoint proteins viz. katG,
rpoB and narH. On the basis of molecular interaction between drug and target
proteins finally eight DrugBank molecules, viz. DB00609, DB00951, DB00615,
DB01220, DB08638, DB08226, DB08266 and DB07349 were selected and are proposed for
treatment of three MAP-associated autoimmune diseases namely, T1DM, CD and
multiple sclerosis. Because these molecules are either approved by the Food and
Drug Administration or these are experimental drugs that can be easily
incorporated in clinical studies or tested in vitro. The proposed strategy may be
used to repurpose drugs to treat autoimmune diseases induced by other pathogens.

Â© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/bib/bbaa195 
PMID: 32895696 

