
1. Indian J Med Microbiol. 2020 Apr-Jun;38(2):169-175. doi:
10.4103/ijmm.IJMM_20_274.

Epidemiology and risk factors associated with NTM pulmonary and extrapulmonary
infections in a high tuberculosis endemic Region.

Wani SR(1), Wattal C(1), Raveendran R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Immunology, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital,
New Delhi, India.

Introduction: Non-tuberculous mycobacteria, although identified as pathogenic to 
humans long time ago, are emerging as the new threat in the past two decades.
Even in tuberculosis endemic country such as India, they are being isolated from 
the clinical specimens more often than previously. This change in trend is of
concern, because they are often misdiagnosed as Mycobacterium tuberculosis or
even as drug-resistant tuberculosis.
Objectives: A prospective, observational study was planned to identify the
frequency and risk factors associated with pulmonary and extrapulmonary
non-tuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) infections. Agreement between two
commercially available molecular systems, namely GenoType Mycobacteria CM assay
and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation time of flight mass spectrometry 
(MALDI TOF MS) used in the identification of mycobacterial species is also
analysed.
Materials and Methods: NTM isolated from pulmonary and extrapulmonary clinical
specimens over a period of 1Â½ year was included in the study. Patient
demographics were collected, and the risk factors associated with NTM infections 
were analyzed. NTM grown on culture was speciated using GenoType Mycobacteria CM 
assay (HAIN Life Sciences, Germany) and MALDI TOF MS (bioMerieux, France).
Drug-susceptibility tests were done for rapid-growing NTM using E-test
(bioMerieux, France).
Results: Eight hundred and fifty-four mycobacteria were isolated from 5009
specimens processed during the study period. Out of the mycobacteria grown, 74
(8.7%) were NTM and 780 (91.3%) were Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex. The NTM 
isolated from pulmonary specimens were 46 (62.16%) and from extrapulmonary
sources were 28 (37.84%). The most common species isolated from pulmonary
specimens was Mycobacterium intracellulare and from extrapulmonary specimens was 
Mycobacterium abscessus. Concordance between the two commercial assays used for
the identification was 96.49%. The most common risk factor associated with
pulmonary NTM was previous lung pathology, while with extrapulmonary NTM
infection was previous surgical intervention. Drug-susceptibility tests for rapid
growers showed amikacin and clarithromycin as the most active drugs in vitro.
Conclusions: NTM plays a significant role in causing pulmonary and extrapulmonary
infections even in our part of the country with high endemicity of tuberculosis. 
NTM has emerged as important pathogens even in the immunocompetent patients.
There is a need for rapid diagnosis and susceptibility testing of NTM to aid
physicians administer timely and appropriate treatment to the patients.

DOI: 10.4103/ijmm.IJMM_20_274 
PMID: 32883930 

Conflict of interest statement: None

