
1. Plast Reconstr Surg Glob Open. 2020 Aug 19;8(8):e3063. doi:
10.1097/GOX.0000000000003063. eCollection 2020 Aug.

Mycobacterium abscessus Infection after Breast Lipotransfer: A Report of 2 Cases.

Miguel Escuredo I(1), Vicario Elorduy E(1), Guío Carrión L(2), Elvira Segura
J(2), Iraurgui Arcarazo P(3), García Gutiérrez JJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Plastic, Aesthetic and Reconstructive Department, Cruces University Hospital, 
Bizkaia, Spain.
(2)Infectious Disease Department, Cruces University Hospital, Bizkaia, Spain.
(3)Microbiology Department, Cruces University Hospital, Bizkaia, Spain.

Mycobacterium abscessus is a rare, non-tuberculous, rapidly growing
mycobacterium. Although it has been usually associated with chronic pulmonary
infections in cystic fibrosis patients, the second most frequent infection sites 
are the skin and subcutaneous tissue. Most of the cutaneous infections described 
in the literature occur secondary to cosmetic invasive procedures, many of them
in the context of medical tourism. Its atypical presentation and
antibiotic-resistant nature make its diagnosis and therapeutics challenging. In
this case report, we present 2 cases of M. abscessus infections secondary to
breast lipotransfer reported in the same private center. Case 1 patient underwent
surgery to treat scar contracture resulting from previous quadrantectomy. Case 2 
patient underwent breast augmentation with lipotransfer. Both of them developed
lesions in the breast and in the donor site (abdomen). The therapeutic regimen
used was amikacin (1 g/24 h) + tigecycline (50 mg/12 h). In case 1, we performed 
a simple mastectomy, and in case 2, periodical ultrasound-guided drainages were
performed as additional procedures. To our knowledge, these are the first 2 cases
that describe an infection secondary to breast lipotransfer. The aim of our
report was to illustrate the presentation, diagnosis, therapeutic management, and
strategies available to prevent this complication.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf 
of The American Society of Plastic Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1097/GOX.0000000000003063 
PMCID: PMC7489723
PMID: 32983807 

