
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 23;8(10). pii: E1459. doi:
10.3390/microorganisms8101459.

Role of Infections in the Pathogenesis of Rheumatoid Arthritis: Focus on
Mycobacteria.

Bo M(1), Jasemi S(1), Uras G(2), Erre GL(3)(4), Passiu G(3)(4), Sechi LA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Section of Microbiology and Virology,
University of Sassari, Viale San Pietro 43b, 07100 Sassari, Italy.
(2)Division of Molecular Therapeutics & Formulation, School of Pharmacy, The
University of Nottingham, University Park Campus, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK.
(3)Department of Medical, Surgical and Experimental Sciences, Clinical and
Experimental Medicine, University of Sassari, Viale San Pietro 43b, 07100
Sassari, Italy.
(4)Dipartimento di Specialit√† Mediche, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di
Sassari, UOC of Rheumatology, Viale San Pietro 8, 07100 Sassari, Italy.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic inflammatory autoimmune disease
characterized by chronic erosive polyarthritis. A complex interaction between a
favorable genetic background, and the presence of a specific immune response
against a broad-spectrum of environmental factors seems to play a role in
determining susceptibility to RA. Among different pathogens, mycobacteria
(including Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis, MAP), and
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), have extensively been proposed to promote specific
cellular and humoral response in susceptible individuals, by activating pathways 
linked to RA development. In this review, we discuss the available experimental
and clinical evidence on the interplay between mycobacterial and EBV infections, 
and the development of the immune dysregulation in RA.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8101459 
PMID: 32977590 

