
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 7;8(9). pii: E1368. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091368.

Mycobacteriosis and Infections with Non-tuberculous Mycobacteria in Aquatic
Organisms: A Review.

Delghandi MR(1), El-Matbouli M(1), Menanteau-Ledouble S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Division of Fish Medicine, University of Veterinary Medicine,
Veterin√§rplatz 1, 1210 Vienna, Austria.

The Mycobacteriaceae constitute a family of varied Gram-positive organisms that
include a large number of pathogenic bacteria. Among these, non-tuberculous
mycobacteria are endemic worldwide and have been associated with infections in a 
large number of organisms, including humans and other mammals and reptiles, as
well as fish. In this review, we summarize the most recent findings regarding
this group of pathogens in fish. There, four species are most commonly associated
with disease outbreaks: Mycobacterium marinum, the most common of these fish
mycobacterial pathogens, Mycobacterium fortuitum, Mycobacterium gordonae, and
Mycobacterium chelonae. These bacteria have a broad host range: they are
zoonotic, and infections have been reported in a large number of fish species.
The main route of entry of the bacterium into the fish is through the
gastrointestinal route, and the disease is associated with ulcerative dermatitis 
as well as organomegaly and the development of granulomatous lesions in the
internal organs. Mycobacteriaceae are slow-growing and fastidious and isolation
is difficult and time consuming and diagnostic is mostly performed using
serological and molecular tools. Control of the disease is also difficult: there 
is currently no effective vaccine and infections react poorly to antibiotherapy. 
For this reason, more research is needed on the subject of these vexing
pathogens.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091368 
PMID: 32906655 

