
1. Front Public Health. 2020 Sep 2;8:479. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2020.00479. eCollection
2020.

Bovine Tuberculosis Case Intervention Using the T.SPOT.TB Assay to Screen Dairy
Workers in Bailey County, Texas.

Rodriguez A(1), Douphrate D(1), Gimeno Ruiz de Porras D(1), Prot E(2), Perez
A(3), Hagevoort R(4), Nonnenmann M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Human Genetics, and Environmental Sciences, School
of Public Health, University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston, TX, United 
States.
(2)Regional Medical Director, Texas Department of State Health Services,
Harlingen, TX, United States.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, School of Public Health,
University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston, TX, United States.
(4)Department of Agricultural Science Center at Clovis, College of Agricultural, 
Consumer, and Environmental Sciences, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces,
NM, United States.
(5)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, College of Public Health,
The University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, United States.

Background: One potential exposure on a dairy farm is Mycobacterium bovis or
bovine tuberculosis (bTB)-an infectious zoonotic pathogen. The prevalence of
tuberculosis among dairy workers in the U.S. is unknown largely due to
insufficient surveillance and testing practices. Our objective was to determine
the prevalence and risk factors of LTBI among dairy workers potentially exposed
to cattle infected with bTB in two Bailey County, Texas dairy farms in 2016.
Methods: This study involved a secondary analysis of data that were collected by 
Texas Department of State Health Services (DSHS) Public Health Region 1 (PHR 1). 
A total of 140 dairy workers were tested using the T.SPOT.TB test assay. As a
proxy for occupational exposures, we used three categories of cattle exposure
groups based on work task, duration, and conditions of exposure to cattle-high,
medium, low. Results: Positive LTBI was found among 14/140 (10.0%) of the dairy
workers tested with 12/87 (13.8%) in Dairy A and 2/53 (3.8%) in Dairy B. All LTBI
cases were determined to be from Hispanic workers with 71.4% indicating having
been vaccinated with the BCG vaccine in their country of birth and none indicated
previously known exposure to TB. The high category of cattle exposure group
experienced the highest prevalence of LTBI (64.3%), followed by the medium cattle
exposure group (28.6%), and the low cattle exposure group (7.1%). Conclusion: Our
findings suggest that the prevalence of LTBI among dairy workers in Bailey
County, Texas is higher than demographically comparable workforces. Future
efforts should focus on the development, delivery, and evaluation of a
tuberculosis-and other zoonotic diseases-health and safety training which can
become a part of a more comprehensive safety management and training program on
dairy farms.

Copyright Â© 2020 Rodriguez, Douphrate, Gimeno Ruiz de Porras, Prot, Perez,
Hagevoort and Nonnenmann.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2020.00479 
PMCID: PMC7493632
PMID: 32984254 

