
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Oct;103(10):9213-9223. doi: 10.3168/jds.2019-18026. Epub 2020
Aug 20.

Test positivity for Maedi-Visna virus and Mycobacterium avium ssp.
paratuberculosis in Sarda ewes: Effects on milk composition and coagulation
traits and heritability estimates for susceptibility.

Pazzola M(1), Puggioni G(2), Ponti MN(2), Scivoli R(2), Dettori ML(3), Cecchinato
A(4), Vacca GM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of Sassari, via Vienna 2, 07100 
Sassari, Italy. Electronic address: pazzola@uniss.it.
(2)Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale della Sardegna "G. Pegreffi," Via Vienna
2, 07100 Sassari, Italy.
(3)Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of Sassari, via Vienna 2, 07100 
Sassari, Italy.
(4)Department of Agronomy, Food, Natural resources, Animals and Environment
(DAFNAE), University of Padova, viale dell'Università 16, 35020 Legnaro (PD),
Italy.

Maedi-Visna virus (MVV) and Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis (MAP) are
two pathogens that cause chronic, production-limiting diseases in dairy sheep.
Although they are present worldwide, there are no detailed reports on their
actual effects on milk traits in the literature. This study was designed to
investigate the effects of test positivity to MVV and MAP on ovine milk yield,
composition and coagulation properties, and curd-firming over time (CFt)
variables in clinically healthy animals at the field level. The additive genetic 
variation and heritabilities of MVV and MAP positivity were also estimated. Milk 
samples were collected from 1,079 Sarda sheep kept on 23 farms, and pedigree
information was obtained from the flock book. Milk yield was also recorded on the
sampling date. Positivity for MVV and MAP was determined from milk samples using 
indirect ELISA test kits. Milk composition traits were measured by spectroscopy, 
milk coagulation properties were measured with a Formagraph (Foss Italia, Padua, 
Italy), and CFt traits were calculated using the data from the Formagraph
diagram. The effects of MVV and MAP positivity on milk traits were determined
through a set of mixed linear models, which took into account various sources of 
variation, such as days in milk, parity, and flock effects, and included the
effects (positive or negative) of the 2 pathogens. A Bayesian threshold sire
model with sire relationship was used to estimate genetic variation and
heritability. The overall animal prevalence of MVV-positive ewes was 43.6%; on
only 1 farm of the 23 tested were all sampled ewes negative. An overall animal
prevalence of 10.6% was recorded for MAP, with 4 farms at 0%. Positivity for MVV 
significantly affected the logarithmic score of the bacterial count, curd
firmness after 30 min and 45 min, and the curd-firming instant rate constant. We 
found significant effects of MAP infection on milk composition, pH, and rennet
coagulation time. The mean of the posterior distributions of heritability
estimates on the liability scale was 0.15 for MAP and 0.07 for MVV. Our results
demonstrate that only a few traits are negatively affected by MVV and MAP
positivity, and that there is exploitable genetic variation in MVV and MAP
susceptibility in dairy sheep.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2019-18026 
PMID: 32828507 

