
1. Immunohorizons. 2020 Oct 2;4(10):573-584. doi: 10.4049/immunohorizons.2000051.

Activation-Induced Marker Expression Identifies Mycobacterium
tuberculosis-Specific CD4 T Cells in a Cytokine-Independent Manner in
HIV-Infected Individuals with Latent Tuberculosis.

Barham MS(1), Whatney WE(1), Khayumbi J(2), Ongalo J(2), Sasser LE(1), Campbell
A(3), Franczek M(3), Kabongo MM(3), Ouma SG(2), Hayara FO(2), Gandhi NR(3)(4),
Day CL(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Emory Vaccine Center, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30329.
(2)Center for Global Health Research, Kenya Medical Research Institute, Kisumu
40100, Kenya.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University,
Atlanta, GA 30322.
(4)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Emory University
School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322; and.
(5)Emory Vaccine Center, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30329; cday@emory.edu.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Emory University School of
Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322.

HIV infection is a significant risk factor for reactivation of latent
Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection (LTBI) and progression to active
tuberculosis disease, yet the mechanisms whereby HIV impairs T cell immunity to
M. tuberculosis have not been fully defined. Evaluation of M.
tuberculosis-specific CD4 T cells is commonly based on IFN-γ production, yet
increasing evidence indicates the immune response to M. tuberculosis is
heterogeneous and encompasses IFN-γ-independent responses. We hypothesized that
upregulation of surface activation-induced markers (AIM) would facilitate
detection of human M. tuberculosis-specific CD4 T cells in a cytokine-independent
manner in HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected individuals with LTBI. PBMCs from
HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected adults in Kenya were stimulated with CFP-10 and
ESAT-6 peptides and evaluated by flow cytometry for upregulation of the
activation markers CD25, OX40, CD69, and CD40L. Although M. tuberculosis-specific
IFN-γ and IL-2 production was dampened in HIV-infected individuals, M.
tuberculosis-specific CD25+OX40+ and CD69+CD40L+ CD4 T cells were detectable in
the AIM assay in both HIV-uninfected and HIV-infected individuals with LTBI.
Importantly, the frequency of M. tuberculosis-specific AIM+ CD4 T cells was not
directly impacted by HIV viral load or CD4 count, thus demonstrating the
feasibility of AIM assays for analysis of M. tuberculosis-specific CD4 T cells
across a spectrum of HIV infection states. These data indicate that AIM assays
enable identification of M. tuberculosis-specific CD4 T cells in a
cytokine-independent manner in HIV-uninfected and HIV-infected individuals with
LTBI in a high-tuberculosis burden setting, thus facilitating studies to define
novel T cell correlates of protection to M. tuberculosis and elucidate mechanisms
of HIV-associated dysregulation of antimycobacterial immunity.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.4049/immunohorizons.2000051 
PMID: 33008839 

