
1. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 Sep 1. doi: 10.1007/s10096-020-04026-z.
[Epub ahead of print]

Clinical risk factors related to treatment failure in Mycobacterium abscessus
lung disease.

Fujiwara K(1), Furuuchi K(1), Aono A(2), Uesugi F(1), Shirai T(1)(3), Nakamoto
K(1)(3), Shimada T(4), Mochizuki F(4), Tanaka Y(1), Iijima H(4), Yoshiyama T(1), 
Shiraishi Y(1), Kurashima A(1), Ohta K(1), Mitarai S(2), Morimoto K(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Respiratory Disease Center, Fukujuji Hospital, Japan Anti-Tuberculosis
Association, 3-1-24, Matsuyama, Kiyose City, Tokyo, 204-8522, Japan.
(2)Department of Mycobacterium Reference and Research, The Research Institute of 
Tuberculosis, Japan Anti-Tuberculosis Association, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Kyorin University School of Medicine,
Mitaka, Japan.
(4)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Tsukuba Medical Center, Tsukuba, Japan.
(5)Respiratory Disease Center, Fukujuji Hospital, Japan Anti-Tuberculosis
Association, 3-1-24, Matsuyama, Kiyose City, Tokyo, 204-8522, Japan.
morimotok@fukujuji.org.
(6)Division of Clinical Research, Fukujuji Hospital, Japan Anti-Tuberculosis
Association, Tokyo, Japan. morimotok@fukujuji.org.

The clinical importance of Mycobacterium abscessus subsp. abscessus (M.
abscessus) lung disease has been increasing, but few studies have assessed the
clinical characteristics associated with the treatment outcome. We
retrospectively analyzed 75 consecutive patients with M. abscessus lung disease
diagnosed at a tertiary hospital from January 2004 to April 2018. Among 52
patients with sufficient clinical data, 19 patients (42.2%) achieved treatment
success. Compared with 26 (57.8%) patients in the treatment failure group, body
mass index (BMI) (19.8 vs 17.5 kg/m2, P = 0.022), previous nontuberculous
mycobacterial (NTM) lung disease (26.3% vs 61.5%, P = 0.034), the presence of
cavitary lesions (31.6% vs 69.2%, P = 0.017), and the bronchiectasis score (3.0
vs 5.0, P = 0.003) were significantly different in the treatment success group.
Multivariate analysis showed that age (adjusted hazard ratio (aHR), 0.94; 95%
confidence interval (CI), 0.90 to 0.99; P = 0.010), the presence of cavitary
lesions (aHR, 0.34; 95% CI, 0.12 to 0.94; P = 0.039), and previous NTM lung
disease (aHR, 0.28; 95% CI, 0.09 to 0.86; P = 0.026) were negatively associated
with treatment success. This is the first study to show that previous NTM lung
disease might be a clinically important factor related to unfavorable treatment
outcomes in M. abscessus lung disease patients. To increase our understanding the
characteristics of M. abscessus lung disease, this factor should be independently
analyzed in future research.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-020-04026-z 
PMID: 32875518 

