
1. Dev Comp Immunol. 2020 Aug 7;114:103800. doi: 10.1016/j.dci.2020.103800. [Epub
ahead of print]

The coordinated outcome of STIM1-Orai1 and superoxide signalling is crucial for
headkidney macrophage apoptosis and clearance of Mycobacterium fortuitum.

Dahiya P(1), Datta D(1), Hussain MA(1), Verma G(2), Shelly A(1), Mehta P(1),
Mazumder S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Immunobiology Laboratory, Department of Zoology, University of Delhi, Delhi,
110 007, India.
(2)Lund University of Diabetes Centre, Lund University, Sweden, 21428, Malmo,
Sweden.
(3)Immunobiology Laboratory, Department of Zoology, University of Delhi, Delhi,
110 007, India; Faculty of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, South Asian
University, New Delhi, 110 021, India. Electronic address: shibnath1@yahoo.co.in.

The mechanisms underlying M. fortuitum-induced pathogenesis remains elusive.
Using headkidney macrophages (HKM) from Clarias gariepinus, we report that
TLR-2-mediated internalization of M. fortuitum is imperative to the induction of 
pathogenic effects. Inhibiting TLR-2 signalling alleviated HKM apoptosis, thereby
favouring bacterial survival. Additionally, TLR-2-mediated cytosolic calcium
(Ca2+)c elevation was instrumental for eliciting ER-stress in infected HKM.
ER-stress triggered the activation of membrane-proximal calcium entry channels
comprising stromal interaction molecule 1 (STIM1) and calcium-release activated
calcium channel 1 (Orai1). RNAi studies suggested STIM1-Orai1 signalling initiate
calpain-mediated cleavage of nitric oxide synthase interacting protein, prompting
the release of pro-apoptotic nitric oxide. Inhibiting STIM1-Orai1 signalling
attenuated superoxide production (O2•-) and vice versa. We conclude,
TLR-2-induced ER-stress triggers STIM1/Orai1 expression and that the reciprocal
association between STIM1-Orai1 signalling and oxidative stress is critical for
sustaining (Ca2+)c level, thereby prolonging ER-stress and maintenance of
pro-oxidant rich environment to induce HKM apoptosis and bacterial clearance.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dci.2020.103800 
PMID: 32771347 

