
1. Infect Drug Resist. 2020 Jun 25;13:1981-1993. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S251626.
eCollection 2020.

Molecular Epidemiology of Myroides odoratimimus in Nosocomial Catheter-Related
Infection at a General Hospital in China.

Yang S(1), Liu Q(1), Shen Z(1), Wang H(1), He L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Renji Hospital, School of Medicine,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.

Purpose: Catheter-related infection (CRI) is one of the most frequent causes of
hospitalizations for immunocompromised patients. A major challenge is the
increased prevalence of Myroides odoratimimus. The purpose of the present study
was to evaluate the clinical features and molecular characteristics of M.
odoratimimus collected from a general hospital in Shanghai, China.
Patients and Methods: From July 2015 to August 2016, a total of 22 isolates of M.
odoratimimus were collected from inpatients respectively from the biliary and
pancreatic surgery (6/22) and the urology department (16/22). Clonal relatedness 
among the isolates was assessed using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and
matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry
(MALDI-TOF MS). Moreover, the antimicrobial susceptibility tests were carried out
using the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) broth microdilution 
method. The presence of antibiotic resistance genes was screened using the
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay. Additionally, protein structure prediction
was analyzed using PSIPRED and RaptorX.
Results: PFGE differentiated these isolates into six possibly related clones from
two different departments obtained during a distinct period, indicating clonal
dissemination in the two departments. We compared the dendrograms of M.
odoratimimus isolates obtained by MALDI-TOF MS with those obtained by PFGE and
found that the coincidence rate between them was only 68.2%. All the M.
odoratimimus isolates were highly resistant to most available antibiotics,
including carbapenems. Furthermore, chromosome-encoded β-lactamases MUS-1 was
confirmed by PCR in 6 of 22 Myroides odoratimimus isolates. Herein, we also
reported a novel variant of blaMUS- 1 in the remaining 16 isolates, which encodes
MUS-3 protein at position 60 (Valine to Alanine), differing from the structure of
MUS-1.
Conclusion: The opportunistic and extensively antibiotic-resistant Myroides
odoratimimus has a small range of epidemics in these two different departments.
Clinicians should be aware that M. odoratimimus may induce a severe nosocomial
outbreak of catheter-related infections, particularly in immunocompromised
patients.

© 2020 Yang et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S251626 
PMCID: PMC7323792
PMID: 32612373 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

