
1. Chemosphere. 2020 Apr;244:125521. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2019.125521. Epub
2019 Dec 2.

Amelioration of chromium and heat stresses in Sorghum bicolor by Cr6+
reducing-thermotolerant plant growth promoting bacteria.

Bruno LB(1), Karthik C(2), Ma Y(3), Kadirvelu K(2), Freitas H(3), Rajkumar M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Sciences, Bharathiar University, Coimbatore,
641046, India.
(2)DRDO - Bharathiar University - Centre for Life Sciences, Coimbatore, 641046,
India.
(3)Centre for Functional Ecology - Science for People & the Planet, Department of
Life Sciences, University of Coimbra, 3000-456, Coimbra, Portugal.
(4)Department of Environmental Sciences, Bharathiar University, Coimbatore,
641046, India. Electronic address: mraaj13@yahoo.com.

Climatic factors particularly increased atmospheric temperature (IAT) greatly
alters plant microbe and heavy metal interactions and subsequently reduces plant 
growth and phytoremediation efficiency. The aim of the study was to assess the
effects of inoculation of chromium reducing-thermotolerant plant growth promoting
bacteria (CRT-PGPB) on plant growth, physiological responses and chromium (Cr)
uptake by Sorghum bicolor under IAT condition. Three potential CRT-PGPB strains
were isolated from Cr contaminated sites and identified as Bacillus cereus TCR17,
Providencia rettgeri TCR21 and Myroides odoratimimus TCR22 through molecular
characterization. These strains displayed the potential to reduce Cr6+ to Cr3+,
produce siderophores, indole-3-acetic acid and solubilize phosphate. Inoculation 
of S. bicolor with CRT-PGPB increased plant growth, antioxidant status
(superoxide dismutase, catalase and ascorbate peroxidase) and decreased proline
and malondialdehyde contents in plants under Cr, IAT and Cr + IAT stress indicate
that PGPB helped plants to reduce stress induced oxidative damage. Irrespective
of IAT stress, inoculation of CRT-PGPB decreased the accumulation of Cr in plants
compared with un-inoculated control suggest that CRT-PGPB might have the
potential to improve phytostabilization process in Cr contaminated soils.
Furthermore, gene expression studies confirmed that inoculation of TCR21
down-regulated the expression of proline synthesis gene (p5cs1) and up-regulated 
the expression of antioxidant related genes (sod, apx1 and cat) and stress
tolerance genes (sHsp). Our results showed that CRT-PGPB exhibiting potential to 
tolerate Cr, temperature, produce plant beneficial metabolites and reduce Cr6+ to
Cr3+, can be exploited as potential inoculants for improving plant growth and
phytoremediation process in Cr contaminated soil under IAT condition.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2019.125521 
PMID: 31812764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no conflict of interest.

