
1. Sci Rep. 2019 Dec 30;9(1):20365. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-56733-z.

Exogenous and endogenous microbiomes of wild-caught Phormia regina (Diptera:
Calliphoridae) flies from a suburban farm by 16S rRNA gene sequencing.

Deguenon JM(1), Travanty N(1), Zhu J(1), Carr A(1), Denning S(1), Reiskind MH(1),
Watson DW(1), Michael Roe R(1)(2), Ponnusamy L(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology, 3230 Ligon Street, Campus Box
7647, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, 27695-7647, USA.
(2)Comparative Medicine Institute, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, 
27695, USA.
(3)Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology, 3230 Ligon Street, Campus Box
7647, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, 27695-7647, USA.
lponnus@ncsu.edu.
(4)Comparative Medicine Institute, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, 
27695, USA. lponnus@ncsu.edu.

The black blow fly, Phormia regina (Meigen) (Diptera: Calliphoridae) is one of
the most abundant carrion flies in North America. Calliphorids are important in
agriculture and animal production, veterinary sciences, forensics and medical
entomology. While the role of flies in the epidemiology of human and animal
diseases is an active area of research, little is known about the microorganisms 
associated with these insects. We examined the diversity of wild-caught black
blow fly endogenous (internal body) and exogenous (external body) microbial
communities using 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Overall, 27 phyla, 171 families and
533 genera were detected, and diversity was significantly higher (P < 0.05) on
external body surfaces. At the genus level, Dysgonomonas, Ignatzschineria,
Acinetobacter, Vagococcus, Myroides, and Wohlfahrtiimonas were predominant.
Cloning and sequencing of nearly full-length fragments of the 16S rRNA gene
showed that some of the species identified are known to be pathogenic to humans, 
animals, and plants. Myroides odoratimimus and Acinetobacter radioresistens are
well-known, multi-drug resistant bacteria. These results provide a snapshot of
the microbial communities harbored by adult black blow flies and call for more
comprehensive studies to better characterize the role these flies may play in the
transmission of pathogenic microorganisms.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-56733-z 
PMCID: PMC6937299
PMID: 31889104 

