
1. Vaccine. 2020 Sep 30. pii: S0264-410X(20)31195-6. doi:
10.1016/j.vaccine.2020.09.035. [Epub ahead of print]

Serogroup B meningococcal vaccination practice patterns on college campuses.

Haimowitz R(1), Torres R(1), Caleb S(1), Thompson D(1), Smith A(2), Ciotoli C(2),
Dannenbaum M(3), Fu LY(4).

Author information: 
(1)General and Community Pediatrics, Children's National Hospital, 111 Michigan
Ave., NW, Washington, DC 20010 USA.
(2)NYU Student Health, New York University, 726 Broadway, New York, NY 10003 USA.
(3)Student Health Services, Texas A&M University, 1264 TAMU, College Station, TX 
77843 USA.
(4)General and Community Pediatrics, Children's National Hospital, 111 Michigan
Ave., NW, Washington, DC 20010 USA. Electronic address:
lfu@childrensnational.org.

BACKGROUND: Most Neisseria meningitidis involved in invasive disease among
American college students express serogroup B antigen. The Advisory Committee on 
Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommends healthcare providers (HCPs) share
clinical decision making with patients to determine individual value of
meningococcal serogroup B vaccination (MenB) rather than routinely recommend
vaccination as with the meningococcal A,C,W,Y vaccine (MenACWY). This study
examines the attitudes and practices of HCPs working in college student health
centers (SHCs) regarding the recommendation and administration of MenB to
students.
METHODS: The study was conducted as an online and phone survey of SHC HCPs from a
sample of colleges across the United States between May 2017 and July 2018. Items
compared college SHC policies and practices for MenB to those for MenACWY. It
also assessed perceived barriers to and facilitators of MenB delivery to
students.
RESULTS: Among the 147 respondents, almost 50% more reported their SHC stocked
and administered MenACWY (54.1%) than MenB (37%) (p = .004). Almost five times as
many colleges required their students receive MenACWY as MenB (53.5% vs. 10.5%,
p < .001). A greater percentage requested students to submit records for MenACWY 
than MenB (77.3% vs. 46.9%, p < .001), and over three times as many tracked
student-body coverage rates for MenACWY than MenB (55.6% vs. 15.8%, p < .001).
Nearly three quarters of respondents estimated their college's student body MenB 
coverage rate to be ≤ 10% or were unable to provide any estimate. Factors
perceived by over half of the participants as moderate to extreme barriers to
administering MenB included high upfront costs for SHCs to purchase and stock
MenB (68.7%), and high out-of-pocket costs for students to receive it (82.8%).
CONCLUSIONS: A minority of college SHCs require, offer or track Men B vaccination
on their campuses. Financial concerns are common barriers to SHCs' stocking and
administering MenB to students.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2020.09.035 
PMID: 33010977 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

