
1. J Med Microbiol. 2019 Dec;68(12):1793-1801. doi: 10.1099/jmm.0.001097.

Carriage of Neisseria meningitidis and other Neisseria species among children and
young adults in Paraguay.

Chamorro G(1), Ibarz-Pavon AB(2), Kawabata A(1), León ME(1), Orrego V(1), Nagai
M(1), Gabastou JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Respiratory and Meningeal Diseases Section, Central Public Health Laboratory, 
Asunción, Paraguay.
(2)Pan American Health Organization / World Health Organization, Washington, DC, 
USA.

Introduction. Colonization by Neisseria meningitidis is the pre-requisite for the
development of disease. We present the findings of a cross-sectional
investigation onto the oropharyngeal carriage of N. meningitidis and Neisseria
species in the population aged 3 to 21 in Paraguay.Aim. Carriage prevalence by
age groups, risk factors associated with carriage, and phenotypic and genotypic
characteristics of strains are described.Methodology. We collected 2011
oropharyngeal swabs from consenting participants aged 3-21 years. Infants were
recruited at immunization clinics, and older children and young adults were
identified at schools and universities. A single oropharyngeal swab was collected
and processed for the identification and isolation of Neisseria. Additionally,
participants, or their legal guardian if these were minors, were requested to
fill a standardized questionnaire.Results. N. meningitidis was isolated in
42/2011 (2.1 %) participants, while other Neisseria spp. were identified in
306/2011 (15.2 %) subjects: N. cinerea and N. lactamica were identified in
39/2011 (1.9 %) and 43/2011 (2.2 %), respectively. Meningococcal strains belonged
to ten different clonal complexes, of which six are associated with invasive
disease (ST-32/ET5 complex, ST-11/ET37 complex, ST-103 complex, ST-167 complex,
ST-35 complex and ST-41/44 complex/lineage 3).Conclusion. Prevalence of N.
meningitidis carriage was low compared to that reported from other settings,
however, the overall carriage of Neisseria spp. (including N. meningitidis) was
comparable to meningococcal carriage prevalence reported in the literature. This 
study is the first of its kind conducted in Paraguay, and one of the few known in
the Southern Cone of Latin America.

DOI: 10.1099/jmm.0.001097 
PMID: 31674897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

