
1. Sex Transm Dis. 2020 Sep 23. doi: 10.1097/OLQ.0000000000001276. [Epub ahead of
print]

High prevalence of sexually transmitted infections in pregnant women living in
southern Brazil.

Yeganeh N(1), Kreitchmann R, Leng M, Nielsen-Saines K, Gorbach PM, Klausner J.

Author information: 
(1)MPH UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, Los
Angeles CA Irmandade da Santa Casa de Misericordia de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre,
Brazil UCLA Department of Medicine Biostats, Los Angeles CA MPH Dept of
Pediatrics, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA Department
of Epidemiology, Fielding School of Public Health at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA United
States. Dept of Internal Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los
Angeles, CA, United States. Division of Infectious Disease. UCLA CARE Center Los 
Angeles CA.

BACKGROUND: Porto Alegre, Brazil has the highest rates of congenital syphilis and
HIV in the country. Other treatable sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are
associated with poor pregnancy and neonatal outcomes, but are only diagnosed by
syndromic algorithms.
METHODS: Between September 2018 and November 2019, we offered all pregnant women 
clinic-based STI testing for HIV antibody and treponemal antibody (via lateral
flow assay rapid tests provided by the Brazilian Government) and for Neisseria
gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis and Trichomonas vaginalis (via PCR-based
testing provided by Gene Xpert, Sunnyvale Ca) in 10 public prenatal health
clinics in Porto Alegre. Participating women answered a brief survey via audio
computer assisted survey instrument regarding demographics, partnerships and
sexual behaviors. All infected individuals received appropriate treatment and
referrals.
RESULTS: Of 400 pregnant women recruited, 94 (24%) were diagnosed with an STI
including 2% with HIV, 11% with syphilis, 9% with chlamydia, 1% with gonorrhea,
5% with trichomoniasis and 3% with more than one STI. In our multivariate
analysis, younger age (AOR 1.1, 95% CI 1-1.2), being non-white (AOR 1.8, 95% CI
1.1-3.1), having less education (AOR 2 95% CI 1.2-3.4), having a relationship <1 
year (AOR 2 95% CI 1.1-3.6), were all independent predictors of women having an
STI. Endorsing symptoms of an STI (eg vaginal ulcers/lesions, vaginal discharge) 
was not predictive of having a laboratory diagnosed STI (OR 1.1, 95% CI 0.7-1.7).
CONCLUSION: Etiologic based screening for STIs was uniformly accepted by women
attending both hospital-based and primary health clinics in the south of Brazil
and can result in appropriate treatment of pregnant women.

DOI: 10.1097/OLQ.0000000000001276 
PMID: 32976355 

