
1. Schizophr Res. 2020 Apr 23. pii: S0920-9964(20)30113-4. doi:
10.1016/j.schres.2020.03.010. [Epub ahead of print]

The oropharyngeal microbiome is altered in individuals with schizophrenia and
mania.

Yolken R(1), Prandovszky E(2), Severance EG(2), Hatfield G(2), Dickerson F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Stanley Neurovirology Laboratory, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, United
States of America. Electronic address: rhyolken@gmail.com.
(2)Stanley Neurovirology Laboratory, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, United
States of America.

It is being increasingly recognized that human mucosal surfaces are not sterile
but are colonized with microorganisms collectively known as the microbiome. The
microbiome can alter brain functioning in humans and animals by way of a series
of interactions operative in the brain-immune-gut interactome. We characterized
the oropharyngeal microbiome in 316 individuals, including 121 with
schizophrenia, 62 with mania, 48 with major depressive disorder, and 85 controls 
without a psychiatric disorder. We found that the oropharyngeal microflora of
individuals with schizophrenia and individuals with mania differed from controls 
in composition and abundance as measured by the weighted UniFrac distance (both
p < .003 adjusted for covariates and multiple comparisons). This measure in
individuals with major depressive disorder did not differ from that of controls. 
We also identified five bacterial taxa which differed among the diagnostic
groups. Three of the taxa, Neisseria subflava, Weeksellaceae, and Prevotella,
were decreased in individuals with schizophrenia or mania as compared to
controls, while Streptococci was increased in these groups. One taxa,
Schlegelella, was only found in individuals with mania. Neisseria subflava was
also positively associated with cognitive functioning as measured by the
Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status. There were no
taxa significantly altered in individuals with major depression. Individuals with
schizophrenia and mania have altered compositions of the oropharyngeal
microbiome. An understanding of the biology of the microbiome and its effect on
the brain might lead to new insights into the pathogenesis, and ultimately, the
prevention and treatment of these disorders.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2020.03.010 
PMID: 32334937 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
have not conflicts of interest to declare.

