
1. Acta Microbiol Immunol Hung. 2020 Mar 30:1-3. doi: 10.1556/030.2020.01039. [Epub 
ahead of print]

A diagnostic challenge in clinical laboratory: Misidentification of Neisseria
subflava as Neisseria meningitidis by MALDI-TOF MS.

Unalan-Altintop T(1), Karagoz A(2), Hazirolan G(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Medical Microbiology, Hacettepe University, Faculty of
Medicine, Ankara,Turkey.
(2)2 Department of Microbiology, Usak University, Faculty of Molecular Biology
and Genetics, Usak,Turkey.

MALDI-TOF MS provides fast, easy to perform and cost-effective diagnosis in
clinical microbiology laboratories, however in some cases results of MALDI-TOF MS
should be confirmed with additional tests. This confirmation is especially
important for causes of life-threatening infections like Neisseria meningitidis. 
In our laboratory, three isolates were identified as N. meningitidis by Bruker
MALDI Biotyper (BD, USA) between April 2018 and March 2019 from clinical
specimens of blood, sputum, and urine. 16S rRNA sequencing was performed for
further investigation. Two of the isolates were identified as Neisseria subflava 
and only one was confirmed as N. meningitidis by sequencing. These results show
that MALDI-TOF MS is not always reliable in the diagnosis of N. meningitidis and 
clinical microbiologists should confirm these results with additional tests.
Also, clinical correlations should be determined. Accurate identification of this
microorganism is very important because of the necessity of prophylactic
antimicrobial usage and biosafety precautions. Enlarged databases of Neisseria
species are needed to overcome this problem.

DOI: 10.1556/030.2020.01039 
PMID: 32223307 

