
1. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2020 Sep 22:1-5. doi: 10.1080/21645515.2020.1809264. [Epub
ahead of print]

Primary immunization of meningococcal meningitis vaccine among children in
Hangzhou, China, 2008-2017.

Che X(1), Liu Y(1), Wang J(1), Xu Y(1), Zhang X(1), Gu W(1), Jiang W(1), Du J(1),
Zhang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Expanded Program on Immunization, Hangzhou Center for Disease
Control and Prevention , Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.

BACKGROUND: Although China's Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) provides two 
doses of group A meningococcal polysaccharide vaccine (MPV-A) for children
younger than 2Â y, more self-paying group A and group C meningococcal
polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (MCV-AC) has been used as an alternative to
MPV-A, to prevent Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (Men-C) earlier. We
evaluated the pattern of MPV-A and MCV-AC utilization to provide evidence for
China to upgrade the national meningococcal meningitis vaccination strategy.
METHODS: Children born between 2008 and 2017 registered in Hangzhou's
Immunization Information System (HZIIS) were included. Descriptive
epidemiological methods were used to characterize the data. Adverse event
following immunization (AEFI) was collected from Chinese national adverse event
following immunization information system (CNAEFIIS) to compare the safety of
MPV-A and MCV-AC.
RESULTS: Data of 1149,027 children from HZIIS were analyzed. The average
immunization rate of meningococcal meningitis vaccine (MenV) was 97.50%.
Percentages of children using MPV-A-only, MCV-AC-only, and MPV-A/MCV-AC
sequential schedules were 68.20%, 29.73%, and 2.07%, respectively. The
vaccination rate of MCV-AC-only increased by age and it was higher in resident
children than migration children. The incidence rate of AEFI of MPV-A and MCV-AC 
was 53.36 per 100,000 and 62.13 per 100,000, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Children in Hangzhou had high MenV coverage. MCV-AC-only schedule use
increased by year and was higher in urban areas among locally born children. Both
MPV-A and MCV-AC were safe for children, while MCV-AC could protect against Men-C
more effectively. This supports the rationale to introduce MCV-AC into China's
EPI system for free instead of MPV-A.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2020.1809264 
PMID: 32961071 

