
1. Nat Commun. 2020 Sep 18;11(1):4723. doi: 10.1038/s41467-020-18464-y.

Structural and mechanistic basis of capsule O-acetylation in Neisseria
meningitidis serogroup A.

Fiebig T(1), Cramer JT(2), Bethe A(3), Baruch P(4), Curth U(4), Führing JI(3)(5),
Buettner FFR(3), Vogel U(6), Schubert M(7), Fedorov R(4), Mühlenhoff M(8).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Biochemistry, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany. Fiebig.Timm@mh-hannover.de.
(2)Institute for Virology, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.
(3)Institute of Clinical Biochemistry, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany.
(4)Institute for Biophysical Chemistry, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany.
(5)Fraunhofer International Consortium for Anti-Infective Research (iCAIR),
Hannover, Germany.
(6)Institute for Hygiene and Microbiology, University of Würzburg, Würzburg,
Germany.
(7)Department of Biosciences, University of Salzburg, Salzburg, Austria.
(8)Institute of Clinical Biochemistry, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany. Muehlenhoff.Martina@mh-hannover.de.

O-Acetylation of the capsular polysaccharide (CPS) of Neisseria meningitidis
serogroup A (NmA) is critical for the induction of functional immune responses,
making this modification mandatory for CPS-based anti-NmA vaccines. Using
comprehensive NMR studies, we demonstrate that O-acetylation stabilizes the
labile anomeric phosphodiester-linkages of the NmA-CPS and occurs in position C3 
and C4 of the N-acetylmannosamine units due to enzymatic transfer and
non-enzymatic ester migration, respectively. To shed light on the enzymatic
transfer mechanism, we solved the crystal structure of the capsule
O-acetyltransferase CsaC in its apo and acceptor-bound form and of the CsaC-H228A
mutant as trapped acetyl-enzyme adduct in complex with CoA. Together with the
results of a comprehensive mutagenesis study, the reported structures explain the
strict regioselectivity of CsaC and provide insight into the catalytic mechanism,
which relies on an unexpected Gln-extension of a classical Ser-His-Asp triad,
embedded in an α/β-hydrolase fold.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-18464-y 
PMCID: PMC7501274
PMID: 32948778 

