
1. J Clin Microbiol. 2020 Sep 16. pii: JCM.01780-20. doi: 10.1128/JCM.01780-20.
[Epub ahead of print]

Full Molecular Typing of Neisseria meningitidis Directly from Clinical Specimens 
for Outbreak Investigation.

Itsko M(1), Retchless AC(1), Joseph SJ(2), Turner AN(2), Bazan JA(2)(3), Sadji
AY(4), Ouédraogo-Traoré R(5), Wang X(6).

Author information: 
(1)WDS Inc., Contractor to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention 1600 Clifton Road, Atlanta, GA, 30033, USA.
(2)IHRC Inc., Contractor to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Division
of Infectious Diseases, The Ohio State University College of Medicine, Columbus, 
OH, USA.
(3)Sexual Health Clinic, Columbus Public Health, Columbus, OH, USA.
(4)Ministère de la Santé et de la Protection Sociale du Togo, Lomé, Togo.
(5)Ministère de la Santé du Burkina Faso, Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso.
(6)WDS Inc., Contractor to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention 1600 Clifton Road, Atlanta, GA, 30033, USA
gqe8@cdc.gov.

Neisseria meningitidis (Nm) is a leading cause of bacterial meningitis and sepsis
worldwide and an occasional cause of meningococcal urethritis. When isolates are 
unavailable for surveillance or outbreak investigations, molecular
characterization of pathogens needs to be performed directly from clinical
specimens such as cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), blood, or urine. However, genome
sequencing of specimens is challenging because of low bacterial and high human
DNA abundances. We developed selective whole genome amplification (SWGA), an
isothermal multiple displacement amplification-based method, to efficiently
enrich, sequence and de novo assemble Nm DNA from clinical specimens with low
bacterial loads. SWGA was validated with 12 CSF specimens from invasive
meningococcal disease cases and 12 urine specimens from meningococcal urethritis 
cases. SWGA increased the mean proportion of Nm reads by 2-3 orders of magnitude 
enabling identification of at least 90% of the 1605 Nm core genome loci for 50%
of the specimens. The validated method was used to investigate two meningitis
outbreaks recently reported in Togo and Burkina Faso. Twenty-seven specimens with
low bacterial load were processed by SWGA before sequencing and 12 of 27 were
successfully assembled to obtain the full molecular typing and vaccine antigen
profile of the Nm pathogen, therefore enabling thorough characterization of
outbreaks. This method is particularly important for enhancing molecular
surveillance in regions with low culture rate. SWGA produces enough reads for
phylogenetic and allelic analysis with a low cost. More importantly, the
procedure can be extended to enrich other important human bacterial pathogens.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.01780-20 
PMID: 32938738 

