
1. mBio. 2020 Mar 3;11(2). pii: e03046-19. doi: 10.1128/mBio.03046-19.

Repurposed Drugs That Block the Gonococcus-Complement Receptor 3 Interaction Can 
Prevent and Cure Gonococcal Infection of Primary Human Cervical Epithelial Cells.

Poole J(#)(1), Day CJ(#)(1), Haselhorst T(1), Jen FE(1), Torres VJ(2), Edwards
JL(3), Jennings MP(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Glycomics, Griffith University, Southport, Queensland,
Australia.
(2)Department of Microbiology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, 
New York, USA.
(3)The Center for Microbial Pathogenesis, The Abigail Wexner Research Institute
at Nationwide Children's Hospital and The Department of Pediatrics, The Ohio
State University, Columbus, Ohio, USA Jennifer.Edwards@nationwidechildrens.org
m.jennings@griffith.edu.au.
(4)Institute for Glycomics, Griffith University, Southport, Queensland, Australia
Jennifer.Edwards@nationwidechildrens.org m.jennings@griffith.edu.au.
(#)Contributed equally

In the absence of a vaccine, multidrug-resistant Neisseria gonorrhoeae has
emerged as a major human health threat, and new approaches to treat gonorrhea are
urgently needed. N. gonorrhoeae pili are posttranslationally modified by a glycan
that terminates in a galactose. The terminal galactose is critical for initial
contact with the human cervical mucosa via an interaction with the I-domain of
complement receptor 3 (CR3). We have now identified the I-domain
galactose-binding epitope and characterized its galactose-specific lectin
activity. Using surface plasmon resonance and cellular infection assays, we found
that a peptide mimic of this galactose-binding region competitively inhibited the
N. gonorrhoeae-CR3 interaction. A compound library was screened for potential
drugs that could similarly prohibit the N. gonorrhoeae-CR3 interaction and be
repurposed as novel host-targeted therapeutics for multidrug-resistant gonococcal
infections in women. Two drugs, methyldopa and carbamazepine, prevented and cured
cervical cell infection by multidrug-resistant gonococci by blocking the
gonococcal-CR3 I-domain interaction.IMPORTANCE Novel therapies that avert the
problem of Neisseria gonorrhoeae with acquired antibiotic resistance are urgently
needed. Gonococcal infection of the human cervix is initiated by an interaction
between a galactose modification made to its surface appendages, pili, and the
I-domain region of (host) complement receptor 3 (CR3). By targeting this crucial 
gonococcal-I-domain interaction, it may be possible to prevent cervical infection
in females. To this end, we identified the I-domain galactose-binding epitope of 
CR3 and characterized its galactose lectin activity. Moreover, we identified two 
drugs, carbamazepine and methyldopa, as effective host-targeted therapies for
gonorrhea treatment. At doses below those currently used for their respective
existing indications, both carbamazepine and methyldopa were more effective than 
ceftriaxone in curing cervical infection ex vivo This host-targeted approach
would not be subject to N. gonorrhoeae drug resistance mechanisms. Thus, our data
suggest a long-term solution to the growing problem of multidrug-resistant N.
gonorrhoeae infections.

Copyright Â© 2020 Poole et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mBio.03046-19 
PMCID: PMC7064771
PMID: 32127453 

