
1. Lancet Microbe. 2020 Aug;1(4):e154-e164. doi: 10.1016/S2666-5247(20)30059-8.

Azithromycin susceptibility of Neisseria gonorrhoeae in the USA in 2017: a
genomic analysis of surveillance data.

Gernert KM(1), Seby S(1), Schmerer MW(1), Thomas JC 4th(1), Pham CD(1), Cyr
SS(1), Schlanger K(1), Weinstock H(1), Shafer WM(1), Raphael BH(1), Kersh EN(1); 
Antimicrobial-Resistant Neisseria gonorrhoeae Working Group *.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Reference and Research Branch (K M Gernert PhD, S Seby MS, M W
Schmerer PhD, J C Thomas IV PhD, C D Pham PhD, B H Raphael PhD, E N Kersh PhD),
Surveillance and Data Management Branch (S St Cyr MD, H Weinstock PhD), and
Epidemiology and Statistics Branch (K Schlanger PhD), Division of STD Prevention,
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD and TB Prevention, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, USA; Oak Ridge Institute for Science
and Education Research Participation and Fellowship Program, Oak Ridge, TN, USA
(S Seby, J C Thomas IV); Department of Microbiology and Immunology and Emory
Antibiotic Resistance Center, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA,
USA (W M Shafer PhD); and Laboratories of Bacterial Pathogenesis, Veterans
Affairs Medical Center, Decatur, GA, USA (W M Shafer).

Background: The number of cases of gonorrhoea in the USA and worldwide caused by 
Neisseria gonorrhoeae is increasing (555 608 reported US cases in 2017, and 87
million cases worldwide in 2016). Many countries report declining in vitro
susceptibility of azithromycin, which is a concern because azithromycin and
ceftriaxone are the recommended dual treatment in many countries. We aimed to
identify strain types associated with decreased susceptibility to azithromycin.
Methods: We did a genomic analysis of N gonorrhoeae isolates obtained by the US
Gonococcal Isolate Surveillance Project. Isolates were whole-genome sequenced
based on decreased susceptibility to azithromycin (minimal inhibitory
concentration [MIC] ≥2 μg/mL, using agar dilution antibiotic susceptibility
testing) and geographical representation. Bioinformatic analyses established
genomic diversity, strain population dynamics, and antimicrobial resistance
profiles.
Findings: 410 isolates were sorted into more than 20 unique phylogenetic clades. 
One predominant persistent clade (consisting of 97 isolates) included the most
isolates with azithromycin MICs of 2 μg/mL or higher (61 of 97 [63%] vs 59 of 311
[19%]; p<0·0001) and carried a mosaic mtr (multiple transferable resistance)
locus (68 of 97 [70%] vs two of 313 [1%]; p<0·0001). Of the remaining 313
isolates, 57 (18%) had decreased susceptibility to azithromycin (MIC ≥4 μg/mL),
which was attributed to 23S rRNA variants (56 of 57 [98%]) and formed
phylogenetically diverse clades, showing various levels of clonal expansion.
Interpretation: Reduced azithromycin susceptibility was associated with expanding
and persistent clades harbouring two well described resistance mechanisms, mosaic
mtr locus and 23S rRNA variants. Understanding the role of recombination,
particularly within the mtr locus, on the fitness and expansion of strains with
decreased susceptibility has important implications for the public health
response to minimise gonorrhoea transmission.
Funding: US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), CDC Combating
Antibiotic Resistant Bacteria initiative, Oak Ridge Institute for Science
Education, US Department of Energy/CDC/Emory University, National Institutes of
Health, and Biomedical Laboratory Research and Development Service of the US
Department of Veterans Affairs.

DOI: 10.1016/S2666-5247(20)30059-8 
PMCID: PMC7527259
PMID: 33005903 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.

