
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Sep 30;9(10). pii: E656. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9100656.

Exploration of the Neisseria Resistome Reveals Resistance Mechanisms in
Commensals That May Be Acquired by N. gonorrhoeae through Horizontal Gene
Transfer.

Fiore MA(1), Raisman JC(1), Wong NH(1), Hudson AO(1), Wadsworth CB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Rochester Institute of Technology, Thomas H. Gosnell School of Life Sciences, 
85 Lomb Memorial Drive, Rochester, NY 14623, USA.

Nonpathogenic Neisseria transfer mutations encoding antibiotic resistance to
their pathogenic relative Neisseria gonorrhoeae. However, the resistance
genotypes and subsequent phenotypes of nonpathogens within the genus have been
described infrequently. Here, we characterize the minimum inhibitory
concentrations (MICs) of a panel of Neisseria (n = 26)-including several
commensal species-to a suite of diverse antibiotics. We furthermore use whole
genome sequencing and the Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database Resistance
Gene Identifier (RGI) platform to predict putative resistance-encoding mutations.
Resistant isolates to all tested antimicrobials including penicillin (n = 5/26), 
ceftriaxone (n = 2/26), cefixime (n = 3/26), tetracycline (n = 10/26),
azithromycin (n = 11/26), and ciprofloxacin (n = 4/26) were found. In total, 63
distinct mutations were predicted by RGI to be involved in resistance. The
presence of several mutations had clear associations with increased MIC such as
DNA gyrase subunit A (gyrA) (S91F) and ciprofloxacin, tetracycline resistance
protein (tetM) and 30S ribosomal protein S10 (rpsJ) (V57M) and tetracycline, and 
TEM-type Î²-lactamases and penicillin. However, mutations with strong associations
to macrolide and cephalosporin resistance were not conclusive. This work serves
as an initial exploration into the resistance-encoding mutations harbored by
nonpathogenic Neisseria, which will ultimately aid in prospective surveillance
for novel resistance mechanisms that may be rapidly acquired by N. gonorrhoeae.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9100656 
PMID: 33007823 

