
1. BMC Infect Dis. 2020 Aug 24;20(1):619. doi: 10.1186/s12879-020-05346-3.

Neisseria macacae bacteremia: report of two cases with a literature review.

Yamamoto Y(1), Terada N(2), Sugiyama T(2), Kurai H(2), Ohkusu K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Shizuoka Cancer Center Hospital, 1007
Shimonagakubo, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka, Nagaizumi, 411-8777, Japan.
eggtoufu@yahoo.co.jp.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases, Shizuoka Cancer Center Hospital, 1007
Shimonagakubo, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka, Nagaizumi, 411-8777, Japan.
(3)Department of Microbiology Tokyo Medical University, Shinjyuku, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Neisseria macacae was discovered in the oral cavity of monkeys in
1983. In humans, it has been isolated from the upper respiratory tract of
neutropenic patients. However, only two cases of N. macacae bacteremia have been 
reported in a 65-year-old man with infective endocarditis and a 5-month-old child
with fever and petechiae. There are no reports of infections in cancer patients. 
Here, we present two cases of N. macacae bacteremia in cancer patients.
CASE PRESENTATION: In the first case, a 42-year-old woman who underwent ovarian
cancer surgery presented with duodenal invasion associated with multiple lymph
node metastasis. N. macacae was isolated from her blood culture and identified
using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass
spectrometry (MS). In the second case, a 69-year-old woman with a long-standing
history of esophagogastric junction cancer presented with fever. She had stage
IVB cancer with lung, bone, and multiple lymph node metastasis. The last
chemotherapy was administered 5 weeks before N. macacae was detected using
MALDI-TOF MS and nitrate test negative. In both cases, transthoracic echography
showed no vegetation. Antibiotics were administered for 14 and 13 days in the
first and second cases, respectively. In both cases, fever alleviated on day 4 of
antibiotic administration. Both patients were discharged after their conditions
improved.
CONCLUSIONS: This, to our knowledge, is the first report of N. macacae bacteremia
in cancer patients. Both patients, mucosal damage was observed in the upper
gastrointestinal tract. Therefore, exclusion diagnosis suggested that bacteremia 
invasion was caused by mucosal rupture in both cases. Both cases responded well
to treatment with β-lactam antibiotics and improved after 2 weeks. Modifying the 
treatment based on the source of the infection may shorten the treatment period. 
Therefore, further research on N. macacae bacteremia is necessary.
Immunocompromised patients such as those with cancer are susceptible to mucosal
damage by unusual bacterial species such as N. macacae despite not having contact
with monkeys.

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-020-05346-3 
PMCID: PMC7444037
PMID: 32831055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

