
1. J Leukoc Biol. 2020 Sep 25. doi: 10.1002/JLB.4MA0820-649R. [Epub ahead of print]

Modulation of phagocytosis-induced cell death of human neutrophils by Neisseria
gonorrhoeae.

Cho C(1), Teghanemt A(1), Apicella MA(2), Nauseef WM(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Inflammation Program and Department of Internal Medicine Roy J. and Lucille A 
Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa and Veterans Administration
Medical Center, Iowa City, Iowa, USA.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Roy J. and Lucille A. Carver
College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa, USA.

Optimal innate immune response to infection includes eradication of potential
pathogens, resolution of associated inflammation, and restitution of homeostasis.
Phagocytosing human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (hPMN) undergo accelerated
apoptosis, a process referred to as phagocytosis-induced cell death (PICD) and an
early step in their clearance from inflammatory sites. Among human pathogens that
modulate hPMN apoptosis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae delays PICD, which may contribute 
to the exuberant neutrophilic inflammation that characterizes gonorrhea. To
elucidate the mechanisms underlying delayed PICD, we compared features of hPMN
cell death that followed phagocytosis of N. gonorrhoeae FA1090 wild-type (GC) or 
serum-opsonized zymosan (OPZ), a prototypical stimulus of PICD.
Phosphatidylserine externalization required NADPH oxidase activity after
ingestion of GC or OPZ, and annexin V staining and DNA fragmentation were less
after phagocytosis of GC compared to OPZ. Caspase 3/7 and caspase 9 activities
after phagocytosis of GC were less than that seen after ingestion of OPZ, but
caspase 8 activity was the same after ingestion of GC or OPZ. When hPMN
sequentially ingested GC followed by OPZ, both caspase 3/7 and 9 activities were 
less than that seen after OPZ alone, and the inhibition was dose dependent for
GC, suggesting that ingestion of GC actively inhibited PICD. Sequential
phagocytosis did not block caspase 8 activity, mitochondrial depolarization, or
annexin V/propidium iodide staining compared to responses of hPMN fed OPZ alone, 
despite inhibition of caspases 3/7 and 9. Taken together, these data suggest that
active inhibition of the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis contributes to the delay 
in PICD after hPMN ingestion of N. gonorrhoeae.

Â©2020 Society for Leukocyte Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/JLB.4MA0820-649R 
PMID: 32977356 

