
1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2020 Jul 22;64(8). pii: e02232-19. doi:
10.1128/AAC.02232-19. Print 2020 Jul 22.

Persistence Dynamics of Antimicrobial-Resistant Neisseria in the Pharynx of
Rhesus Macaques.

Thapa E(1), Knauss HM(1), Colvin BA(1), Fischer BA(1), Weyand NJ(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio, USA.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio, USA
weyand@ohio.edu.
(3)The Infectious and Tropical Disease Institute, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio, 
USA.
(4)Molecular and Cellular Biology Program, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio, USA.

Pharyngeal infections by Neisseria gonorrhoeae are often asymptomatic, making
them difficult to treat. However, in vivo animal modeling of human pharyngeal
infections by pathogenic Neisseria species is challenging due to numerous host
tropism barriers. We have relied on rhesus macaques to investigate pharyngeal
persistence of naturally occurring Neisseria species in response to antibiotics. 
These species include Neisseria mucosa, Neisseria oralis, and a species unique to
macaques. Four animals previously treated intramuscularly with the
fluoroquinolone enrofloxacin for 2 weeks were monitored for persistence of their 
preexisting Neisseria populations for a period of 10 weeks. Enrofloxacin exposure
did not eliminate preexisting flora from two of the four animals.
Characterization of a collection of macaque Neisseria isolates supported the
hypothesis that pharyngeal persistence was linked to reduced enrofloxacin
susceptibility conferred by mutations in either gyrA or parC Interestingly, we
observed a change in neisserial population dynamics for several weeks following
enrofloxacin exposure. Enrofloxacin appeared to promote competition between
strains for dominance in the pharyngeal niche. Specifically, following
enrofloxacin treatment, strains bearing single gyrA mutations and low MICs
persisted long-term. In contrast, strains with both gyrA and parC mutations and
high MICs became culturally undetectable, consistent with the hypothesis that
they were less fit. Our study has provided insight into pharyngeal persistence
dynamics of Neisseria species bearing fluoroquinolone resistance determinants.
The rhesus macaque provides a valuable host animal that may be used in the future
to simulate treatment failures associated with the presence of
antimicrobial-resistant Neisseria spp. in the human pharynx.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.02232-19 
PMCID: PMC7526842 [Available on 2021-01-22]
PMID: 32423958 

