
1. Klin Lab Diagn. 2020;65(1):42-49. doi: 10.18821/0869-2084-2020-65-1-42-49.

[The state and role of esophagus, stomach, intestinal microbiota in patients with
ulcer disease, chronic gastritis, esophagitis.]

[Article in Russian]

Chervinets VM(1), Mironov AY(2), Chervinets YV(1), Bazlov SN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tver State Medical University, 170100, Tver, Russia.
(2)G.N. Gabrichevskogo Moscow Research Institute for Epidemiology and
Microbiology, 125212, Moscow, Russia.

The microflora of 64 biopsies taken during fibrogastroduodenoscopy of the mucous 
membrane of the esophagus, stomach and duodenum in healthy volunteers and 1120
samples obtained from the same parts of the digestive tract in patients with
esophagitis, chronic gastritis and peptic ulcer disease were studied. The
patients ranged in age from 18 to 62 years. Traditional bacteriological method
was used to isolate and identify microorganisms. Staphylococcus spp.,
Streptococcus spp., Lactobacillus spp., Bacteroides spp., Stomatococcus spp.,
Enterobacteriaceae, Corynebacterium spp., Micrococcus spp., Neisseria spp.,
Veilonella spp. were isolated from biopsies of healthy respondents in an average 
amount from 3.2 to 4.68 lg CFU/g. H.pylori was found in 60% (5.66 lg CFU/g) in
the esophagus, in 33.3% of cases (5.12 lg CFU/g) from the fundal part of the
stomach, in 44.4% (5.25 lg CFU/g) from the antral part of the stomach, in 5.5%
(4.2 lg CFU/g) in the duodenal mucosa. In samples obtained from the inflamed and 
eroded mucous membrane of the esophagus, stomach and duodenum, opportunistic
bacteria of the genera Klebsiella, Enterobacter, Proteus, Pseudomonas,
Peptococcus, Actinomyces, yeast fungi of the genus Candida etc. were detected in 
an amount exceeding 4 lg CFU/g. H. pylori isolated in 6.3-16.7% of patients
(4.25-4.6 lg CFU/g) and did not dominate in relation to other microorganisms, and
in most cases had a low frequency of its occurrence. In patients with the
recurrence of peptic ulcer disease, exacerbation of chronic gastritis and
esophagitis, dysbiosis was developed, characterized by an increase in the species
and quantitative composition of opportunistic microflora, an increase in its
enzymatic and cytotoxic activity, which can contribute to the maintenance of
inflammatory and necrotic processes and inhibit the elimination of the
pathological process.

DOI: 10.18821/0869-2084-2020-65-1-42-49 
PMID: 32155006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

