
1. Access Microbiol. 2020 Mar 20;2(6):acmi000118. doi: 10.1099/acmi.0.000118.
eCollection 2020.

Challenges in the veterinary microbiology diagnostic laboratory: a novel
Acinetobacter species as presumptive cause for feline unilateral conjunctivitis.

Vale AP(1)(2), Leggett B(1), Smyth D(3), Leonard F(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Veterinary Medicine, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)Present address: Institute of Technology Sligo, Sligo, Ireland.
(3)Brookpark Veterinary Clinic, Dunmanway, Co. Cork, Ireland.

The present study highlights challenges in the veterinary microbiology diagnostic
laboratory in the identification of bacteria responsible for infections in
veterinary settings, particularly when evidence-based data is lacking. A
1.8-year-old neutered male domestic cat (FIV/FeLV negative) was presented to a
veterinary practice in April 2016 with a history of left unilateral mild
conjunctivitis that was empirically treated with fusidic acid and
chloramphenicol. In January 2017, the same animal was presented with chronic left
unilateral conjunctivitis and an eye swab was submitted for microbiological
culture and susceptibility testing. Significant growth was not detected in two
samples tested. Finally, in February 2017 another eye swab produced a slow
growing pure culture identified by VITEK 2 as Neisseria cinerea (94 %
confidence). Given the morphology and multidrug resistance profile of the isolate
a 16S rRNA PCR was performed for definitive identification. The nucleotide
sequence of the PCR amplicon was 99 % homologous to Acinetobacter equi sp. nov.
strain 114. Veterinary microbiology diagnostic laboratories play an important
role worldwide, not only in preserving animal health and welfare but also in
controlling the spread of zoonotic pathogens. The lack of evidence-based
information on the ocular microbiome of healthy cats and the complexity of
bacterial ecosystems renders the interpretation of results difficult. A further
problem for both the laboratory and the clinician is the lack of interpretive
criteria for antibiotic susceptibility test results for some types of infections 
in animals (including those caused by Acinetobacter ) and the complete
unavailability of criteria for topical antibiotic preparations.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1099/acmi.0.000118 
PMCID: PMC7494196
PMID: 32974584 

Conflict of interest statement: We have no conflicts of interest to disclose.

