
1. Int J STD AIDS. 2020 Sep 30:956462420955067. doi: 10.1177/0956462420955067. [Epub
ahead of print]

Attitudes of women participating in a clinical trial on point-of-care testing and
home testing for STIs.

Chow K(1), Edi R(2), Gin G(2), Morris SR(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California San Diego, San Diego, CA,
USA.
(2)Department of Family Medicine and Public Health, University of California San 
Diego, San Diego, CA, USA.

Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis and Trichomonas vaginalis infections
are a public health concern and cost the United States' healthcare system 16
billion dollars annually. By minimizing barriers to testing, an increased number 
of infections can be detected and treated. A home-based point-of-care (POC)
sexually transmitted infection (STI) test may reduce personal, structural, social
and system-level barriers to STI testing. This study assesses patient preferences
and acceptance of home-based POC STI testing. We performed a cross-sectional,
single-visit study of women aged 18â€‰years and older at a single site. Women
completed an anonymous online survey evaluating interest in POC STI testing,
comfort in self-collecting vaginal swabs and participant reaction to a positive
STI result. 138 participants completed the anonymous online survey. The survey
results indicate high acceptability with self-collection of samples and home POC 
STI testing. A majority of participants were interested or very interested in a
home POC STI device-especially amongst women with a past history of a STI. If
receiving a positive test result, participants indicated they would want to have 
someone to discuss their results with, most preferring to speak with their
primary care provider. Women on lower incomes were less comfortable and less
interested with home testing. Women are likely to be receptive to home POC STI
testing. Adapting to home-based testing will require engagement of primary care
providers for management and surveillance of STIs.

DOI: 10.1177/0956462420955067 
PMID: 32996866 

