
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 23;8(10). pii: E1456. doi:
10.3390/microorganisms8101456.

Evidence for Multi-Organ Infection During Experimental Meningococcal Sepsis due
to ST-11 Isolates in Human Transferrin-Transgenic Mice.

Levy M(1)(2)(3), Aouiti Trabelsi M(1), Taha MK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Invasive Bacterial Infection Unit, 28 rue du Dr Roux, 75724 
Paris, France.
(2)Paediatric Intensive Care Unit, Robert-Debré University Hospital, Assistance
Publique Hôpitaux de Paris, 75019 Paris, France.
(3)Université de Paris, 75019 Paris, France.

The description of invasive meningococcal disease that is provoked by Neisseria
meningitidis (Nm) is frequently restricted to meningitis. However, a wide panel
of clinical presentations can be encountered including severe forms with intense 
inflammatory reaction leading to multi-organ failure. Several human factors are
involved in the development of invasive infections such as transferrin, factor H 
or CEACAM1. In this study, we used an experimental meningococcal infection in
transgenic mice expressing the human transferrin to show multi-organ infection.
Mice were infected by an intraperitoneal injection of bacterial suspension (1.5 ×
107 colony-forming unit/mouse) of a bioluminescent serogroup C strain belonging
to the clonal complex ST-11. Dynamic imaging and histological analysis were
performed. The results showed invasion of tissues by Nm with bacteria observed,
outside blood vessels, in the kidneys, the heart and the brain as well as skin
involvement. These data further support the systemic aspect of invasive
meningococcal disease with involvement of several organs including skin as in
humans. Thus, our model can be used to study severe forms of meningococcal
invasive infections with multi-organ failure.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8101456 
PMID: 32977487 

