
1. New Microbiol. 2020 Jul;43(3):115-120. Epub 2020 Jun 13.

Genital and extra-genital Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae
infections in young women attending a Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI)
clinic.

Foschi C(1), Zagarrigo M(2), Belletti M(2), Marangoni A(1), Re MC(1), Gaspari
V(2).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology, DIMES, University of Bologna, via Massarenti 9, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Dermatology, DIMES, University of Bologna, via Massarenti 9, Bologna, Italy.

Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae are the most common agents of
bacterial sexually transmitted infections (STIs) worldwide. Here, we evaluated
genital and extra-genital C. trachomatis and N. gonorrhoeae infection prevalence 
in a cohort of young women attending an STI Outpatients Clinic in Italy. From May
2019 to December 2019, 134 women aged 18-26 years were enrolled. A vaginal, a
pharyngeal and a rectal swab for the molecular detection of C. trachomatis and N.
gonorrhoeae were collected from each patient. Chlamydia-positive samples
underwent a molecular genotyping based on pmpH gene. Total prevalence of C.
trachomatis and N. gonorrhoeae infections was 17.9% and 11.2%, respectively.
Chlamydial infections were prevalent in the urogenital (16.4%) and rectal (13.4%)
sites, whereas N. gonorrhoeae predominated in the genital (7.4%) and pharyngeal
(6%) mucosa. Overall, 5.2% of cases would have been missed if extra-genital sites
had not been tested. Notably, 60% of women with a rectal infection did not report
anal sex. A history of sexual contacts with a positive partner (P=0.03) and a
history of â‰¥3 partners in the last 6 months (P=0.0075) were highly predictive of 
a bacterial STI. No cases of lymphogranuloma venereum were found. These data
could help set up effective strategies to prevent the spread of STIs.


PMID: 32656570 

