
1. Drug Dev Ind Pharm. 2020 Sep;46(9):1517-1523. doi: 10.1080/03639045.2020.1810267.
Epub 2020 Aug 26.

Preliminary in vitro and in vivo evaluation of specific activity of branched
oligohexamethyleneguanidine hydrochloride.

Beliakov SV(1)(2), Shatalov DO(1)(2), Kedik SA(1)(2), Aydakova AV(1)(2),
Zasypkina NA(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology and Industrial Pharmacy Department, MIREA - Russian
Technological University, Moscow, Russia.
(2)JSC 'Institute of pharmaceutical technology', Moscow, Russia.

Branched oligohexamethyleneguanidine hydrochloride (OHMG) possesses great
potential for the development of novel drugs for the treatment of diseases caused
by bacteria. This study aimed at evaluating the antimicrobial activity of OHMG
against potential causative agents of oral and pharyngeal mucosa infections,
specifically, the activity against 56 clinical strains, 5 of which were
antibiotics-resistant. Also, a preliminary in vivo study of the specific activity
of OHMG based on a traumatic stomatitis and gingivitis model in rabbits was
carried out. In vitro antimicrobial activity of OHMG was determined by testing
the minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC). OHMG displayed excellent activity
against Streptococcus pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes (MIC was
0.002-0.25 µg/ml), Moraxella catarrhalis (0.03-0.06 µg/ml), Neisseria gonorrhoeae
(0.125-2 µg/ml). Almost complete healing of defects in the groups of animals
within the 7-day application of 'OHMG hydrochloride' at concentrations of 0.1%
and 0.3% after the thermal formation of the stomatitis and gingivitis model was
observed.

DOI: 10.1080/03639045.2020.1810267 
PMID: 32808581 

