
1. Mol Immunol. 2020 Sep 26;127:175-185. doi: 10.1016/j.molimm.2020.09.009. [Epub
ahead of print]

Characteristics of the tree shrew humoral immune system.

Zhang J(1), Xiao H(1), Bi Y(1), Long Q(1), Gong Y(1), Dai J(1), Sun M(1), Cun
W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Biology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking
Union Medical College, China; Yunnan Key Laboratory of Vaccine Research and
Development of Severe Infectious Disease, 935 Jiaoling Road, Kunming, 650118,
Yunnan, China.
(2)Institute of Medical Biology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking
Union Medical College, China; Yunnan Key Laboratory of Vaccine Research and
Development of Severe Infectious Disease, 935 Jiaoling Road, Kunming, 650118,
Yunnan, China. Electronic address: cun@imbcams.com.cn.

Preclinical studies require an immune response similar to that of humans in a
small animal model that is convenient to operate. Based on genome alignment, tree
shrews are small animals considered to be more similar to primates than are
rodents, and many human disease models have been established with tree shrews.
However, the characteristics of the humoral immune response of tree shrews remain
to be elucidated. In this study, the genetic sequence of the heavy chain constant
region of tree shrew immunoglobulin (Ig) was complemented, and the results of
immunoglobulin domain homology and transcriptome analysis showed that the tree
shrew genome encodes only four classes of antibodies and does not encode IgD. The
oldest IgM antibody has the highest homology with primates. After the complete
sequence of each type of antibody was obtained, the tree shrew antibody protein
was further expressed and purified by in vitro recombination, and an IgG
quantitative evaluation system was established. The highly effective immuno
protective effect induced by HSV-1 infection and the significant bactericidal
effect induced by Neisseria meningitidis group C polysaccharide immunization
showed that tree shrews exhibited immune responses more similar to humans than to
mice. This may provide better predictive value for vaccine preclinical research.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molimm.2020.09.009 
PMID: 32992149 

