
1. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2020 Apr 1;75(4):907-910. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkz530.

Emergence of ceftriaxone-resistant Neisseria gonorrhoeae strains harbouring a
novel mosaic penA gene in China.

Xiu L(1), Yuan Q(2), Li Y(1), Zhang C(1), Tang L(2), Peng J(1).

Author information: 
(1)NHC Key Laboratory of Systems Biology of Pathogens, Institute of Pathogen
Biology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College,
Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.

OBJECTIVES: The continuous emergence of ceftriaxone-resistant Neisseria
gonorrhoeae strains threatens the effectiveness of current treatment regimens for
gonorrhoea. The objective of the present study was to characterize three
ceftriaxone-resistant N. gonorrhoeae strains with a novel mosaic penA allele
isolated in China.
METHODS: Three ceftriaxone-resistant Neisseria gonorrhoeae strains (GC150, GC161 
and GC208) isolated in 2017 were characterized by N. gonorrhoeae multiantigen
sequence typing (NG-MAST), MLST and N. gonorrhoeae sequence typing for
antimicrobial resistance (NG-STAR). Recombination analyses were performed using
the SimPlot software.
RESULTS: Three strains had the same antibiotic resistance profiles, with
resistance to ceftriaxone (MIC 0.5 mg/L), ciprofloxacin (MIC 8.0 mg/L),
penicillin (MIC 2.0 mg/L) and tetracycline (MIC 2.0-8.0 mg/L). STs were assigned 
as MLST7360, NG-MAST14292 and NG-STAR1611/NG-STAR1612. The penA gene of these
three strains differed from previous ceftriaxone-resistant gonococcal strains and
harboured a novel mosaic allele (penA-121.001). Like N. gonorrhoeae FC428, a
widely disseminated ceftriaxone-resistant strain that was initially described in 
Japan in 2015, all strains also possessed substitutions A311V and T483S in PBP2, 
which are associated with resistance to ceftriaxone. Potential recombination
events were detected in penA between N. gonorrhoeae strain FC428 and commensal
Neisseria species. Our results provide further evidence that the commensal
Neisseria species (Neisseria cinerea and Neisseria perflava) can serve as a
reservoir of ceftriaxone resistance-mediating penA sequences in clinical
gonococcal strains.
CONCLUSIONS: The emergence of such strains may be the result of the interspecies 
recombination of penA genes between N. gonorrhoeae strain FC428 and commensal
Neisseria species.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
British Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy. All rights reserved. For
permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkz530 
PMID: 31899504 

