
1. mSphere. 2020 Sep 16;5(5). pii: e00376-20. doi: 10.1128/mSphere.00376-20.

Genomic Characterization of Invasive Meningococcal Serogroup B Isolates and
Estimation of 4CMenB Vaccine Coverage in Finland.

Bodini M(1), Brozzi A(1), Giuliani M(1), Nohynek H(2), Vainio A(2), Kuusi M(2),
De Paola R(1), Pizza M(1), Medini D(1), Toropainen M(2), Serino L(1), Muzzi A(3).

Author information: 
(1)GSK, Siena, Italy.
(2)Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare (THL), Helsinki, Finland.
(3)GSK, Siena, Italy alessandro.x.muzzi@gsk.com.

Invasive meningococcal disease (IMD) caused by Neisseria meningitidis is a
significant cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. In Finland, the incidence
rate of IMD is low, with meningococcal serogroup B (MenB) accounting for around
one-third of IMD cases annually. The aim of this study was to investigate the
genetic variability of invasive MenB isolates collected in Finland between 2010
and 2017 (n = 81), including the genes encoding the 4-component MenB vaccine
(4CMenB; Bexsero; GSK) antigens and their promoters, and to evaluate the 4CMenB
potential coverage. Whole-genome sequencing was performed. The meningococcal
antigen typing system (MATS) was used to characterize MenB isolates and predict
the potential coverage of 4CMenB. MATS was complemented by genetic MATS (gMATS)
through association of antigen genotyping and phenotypic MATS results. Multilocus
sequence typing revealed predominance of the ST-41/44 clonal complex among which 
sequence type (ST)-303 was the most common and was predicted to be covered by
4CMenB. Of the 4 major vaccine antigens, the factor H-binding protein variant 1, 
neisserial heparin binding antigen peptide 2, and the PorA P1.4 antigen were
predominant, whereas Neisseria adhesin A was present in only 4% of the 81
isolates. MATS and gMATS 4CMenB strain coverage predictions were 78% and 86%,
respectively, in a subpanel of 60 isolates collected during 2010 to 2014, with a 
gMATS prediction of 84% for all 81 isolates. The results suggest that 4CMenB
could reduce the burden of IMD in Finland and that gMATS could be applied to
monitor vaccine strain coverage and predict vaccine effectiveness.IMPORTANCE
4CMenB is a 4-component vaccine used against invasive meningococcal disease (IMD)
caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B (MenB). We investigated the genetic 
variability of MenB in Finland and evaluated 4CMenB strain coverage by 2
different methods: MATS (meningococcal antigen typing system) and gMATS (genetic 
MATS). In a set of MenB isolates, 78% (MATS) and 86% (gMATS) were predicted as
covered by 4CMenB, suggesting that use of 4CMenB would help reduce IMD incidence 
in Finland. MATS has been used in 13 countries worldwide, generating information 
on phenotypic characteristics that could infer protection by 4CMenB. Based on
these data and genetic information, gMATS coverage predictions can be made. gMATS
predicts coverage consistent with MATS for about 94% of tested strains. Unlike
MATS, gMATS does not require live isolates, thus allowing the analysis also of
noncultivable strains, making the coverage predictions more accurate. Therefore, 
gMATS can replace MATS to assess 4CMenB coverage, including in regions with no
prior MATS data.

Copyright © 2020 Bodini et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSphere.00376-20 
PMCID: PMC7494829
PMID: 32938694 

