
1. Biometals. 2020 Sep 26. doi: 10.1007/s10534-020-00251-3. [Epub ahead of print]

Metal center ion effects on photoinactivating rapidly growing mycobacteria using 
water-soluble tetra-cationic porphyrins.

Guterres KB(1), Rossi GG(1), de Campos MMKA(1), Moreira KS(2), Burgo TAL(2),
Iglesias BA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Mycobacteriology, Universidade Federal de Santa Maria, Av.
Roraima 1000, Campus Camobi, Santa Maria, RS, 97105-900, Brazil.
(2)Coulomb Electrostatic and Mechanochemical Laboratory, Universidade Federal de 
Santa Maria, Av. Roraima 1000, Campus Camobi, Santa Maria, RS, 97105-900, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Bioinorganic and Porphyrinic Materials, Universidade Federal de 
Santa Maria, Av. Roraima 1000, Campus Camobi, Santa Maria, RS, 97105-900, Brazil.
bernardopgq@gmail.com.

Rapidly growing mycobacteria (RGM) are pathogens that belong to the
mycobacteriaceae family and responsible for causing mycobacterioses, which are
infections of opportunistic nature and with increasing incidence rates in the
world population. This work evaluated the use of six water-soluble cationic
porphyrins as photosensitizers for the antimicrobial photodynamic therapy (aPDT) 
of four RGM strains: Mycolicibacterium fortuitum, Mycolicibacterium smeagmatis,
Mycobacteroides abscessus subs. Abscessus, and Mycobacteroides abscessus subsp.
massiliense. Experiments were conducted with an adequate concentration of
photosensitizer under white-light irradiation conditions over 90 min and the
results showed that porphyrins 1 and 2 (M = 2H or ZnII ion) were the most
effective and significantly reduced the concentration of viable mycobacteria. The
present work shows the result is dependent on the metal-center ion coordinated in
the cationic porphyrin core. Moreover, we showed by atomic force microscopy (AFM)
the possible membrane photodamage caused by reactive oxygen species and analyzed 
the morphology and adhesive force properties. Tetra-positively charged and
water-soluble metalloporphyrins may be promising antimycobacterial aPDT agents
with potential applications in medical clinical cases and bioremediation.

DOI: 10.1007/s10534-020-00251-3 
PMID: 32980947 

