
1. J Mol Graph Model. 2020 Jun;97:107546. doi: 10.1016/j.jmgm.2020.107546. Epub 2020
Jan 23.

Mg2+ vs Ca2+ bound active site of group II intron- A MD study.

Kumar A(1), Satpati P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosciences and Bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology
Guwahati, Guwahati, 781039, Assam, India.
(2)Department of Biosciences and Bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology
Guwahati, Guwahati, 781039, Assam, India. Electronic address:
psatpati@iitg.ac.in.

Group II introns are enzymes which undergo self-splicing and remove itself from
pre-messenger RNA. X-ray structures of group II intron of Oceanobacillus
iheyensis at various stages of the self-splicing pathway (pre-hydrolytic,
post-hydrolytic, and ligand-free state) revealed intricate atomic interaction
network in the active site of the intron. It has been confirmed that a
heteronuclear metal ion cluster consisting of four metal ions (K1, K2 sites with 
K+ and M1, M2 sites with Mg2+) are crucial for function. Substitution of Mg2+ by 
Ca2+ results in loss of enzymatic activity. The X-ray structures not only opens
up the possibility of modelling Mg2+ and Ca2+ bound active site of group II
intron and quantitatively estimate the energetics of Mg2+ vs Ca2+ preference but 
also explore the relative structural and dynamical differences in response to
divalent metal ion substitution. Thus, using X-ray structures as a template we
performed molecular dynamics simulations to compare structural and dynamical
differences between Mg2+ and Ca2+ bound active site of group II intron at various
stages of the splicing pathway (i.e., pre-hydrolytic, post-hydrolytic, and
ligand-free state). Quantitative estimation of Mg2+ vs Ca2+ selectivity at the
M1, M2 sites confirmed Mg2+ preference at intron active sites relative to Ca2+.
Ca2+ is relatively more hydrated in the intron active site relative to Mg2+. The 
local environment (bound nucleophilic water, interaction with scissile phosphate)
around M2 is strikingly different between Mg2+ and Ca2+ bound pre-hydrolytic
state. In the post-hydrolytic state, the exon part of the hydrolysis product is
involved in direct interaction with the M1, whereas the intron part is highly
flexible in our MD trajectories. Solvent exposure of M1, M2 sites are least in
the pre-hydrolytic state, highest in the ligand-free state, and intermediate in
the post-hydrolytic state.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmgm.2020.107546 
PMID: 32018058 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no conflict of interest.

