
1. Molecules. 2020 Jul 23;25(15). pii: E3348. doi: 10.3390/molecules25153348.

Evaluating the Effect of Azole Antifungal Agents on the Stress Response and
Nanomechanical Surface Properties of Ochrobactrum anthropi Aspcl2.2.

Pacholak A(1), Burlaga N(1), Kaczorek E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Chemical Technology and Engineering, Poznan University of
Technology, Berdychowo 4, 60-695 Poznan, Poland.

Azole antifungal molecules are broadly used as active ingredients in various
products, such as pharmaceuticals and pesticides. This promotes their release
into the natural environment. The detailed mechanism of their influence on the
biotic components of natural ecosystems remains unexplored. Our research aimed to
examine the response of Ochrobactrum anthropi AspCl2.2 to the presence of four
azole antifungal agents (clotrimazole, fluconazole, climbazole, epoxiconazole).
The experiments performed include analysis of the cell metabolic activity, cell
membrane permeability, total glutathione level and activity of glutathione
S-transferases. These studies allowed for the evaluation of the cells' oxidative 
stress response to the presence of azole antifungals. Moreover, changes in the
nanomechanical surface properties, including adhesive and elastic features of the
cells, were investigated using atomic force microscopy (AFM) and
spectrophotometric methods. The results indicate that the azoles promote
bacterial oxidative stress. The strongest differences were noted for the cells
cultivated with fluconazole. The least toxic effect has been attributed to
climbazole. AFM observations unraveled molecular details of bacterial cell
texture, structure and surface nanomechanical properties. Antifungals promote the
nanoscale modification of the bacterial cell wall. The results presented provided
a significant insight into the strategies used by environmental bacterial cells
to survive exposures to toxic azole antifungal agents.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25153348 
PMCID: PMC7435821
PMID: 32717971 

