
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Feb;70(2):1250-1258. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003907.

Segnochrobactrum spirostomi gen. nov., sp. nov., isolated from the ciliate
Spirostomum yagiui and description of a novel family, Segnochrobactraceae fam.
nov. within the order Rhizobiales of the class Alphaproteobacteria.

Akter S(1)(2), Shazib SUA(2), Shin MK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Jagannath University, Dhaka 1100, Bangladesh.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Ulsan, Ulsan 44610, Republic 
of Korea.

A bacterial strain, designated Sp-1T, was isolated from the heterotrich ciliate
Spirostomum yagiui collected from a reservoir located in Ulsan, Republic of
Korea. Cells of Sp-1T were Gram stain-negative, rod-shaped, non-spore-forming,
non-motile and contained poly-β-hydroxybutyrate granules. Phylogenetic analyses
based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that Sp-1T constituted a distinct
phylogenetic lineage within different families in the order Rhizobiales with a
pairwise sequence similarity of 95 % to the species of the genus Ochrobactrum:
Ochrobactrum anthropi ATCC 49188T and Ochrobactrum cytisi ESC1T (family
Brucellaceae). The major cellular fatty acids were C19 : 0 cyclo ω8c (44.4 %) and
C16 : 0 (32.1 %). The identified sole isoprenoid quinone was ubiquinone-10
(Q-10). The major polar lipids produced were phosphatidylcholine,
phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylethanolamine, an unidentified aminolipid, two
unidentified phospholipids and three unidentified lipids. The genome size was
about 5.4 Mbp and the DNA G+C content was 68.2 mol%. Sp-1T exhibited the highest 
average nucleotide identity value of 76.6 % and in silico DNA-DNA hybridization
value of 22.1 % with Pseudoxanthobacter soli DSM 19599T (family
Xanthobacteraeae). This strain is distinguishable from closely related members of
the order Rhizobiales by its differential phenotypic, chemotaxonomic, genomic and
phylogenetic characteristics. On the basis of evidence from polyphasic taxonomic 
analysis, we concluded that Sp-1T represents a novel species in a novel genus
within the order Rhizobiales, for which the name Segnochrobactrum spirostomi gen.
nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is Sp-1T (=KCTC 62036T=JCM 32162T).
We also describe a novel family, Segnochrobactraceae fam. nov., to encompass the 
proposed novel genus and species.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003907 
PMCID: PMC7397251
PMID: 31800387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

