
1. PLoS One. 2020 Feb 24;15(2):e0229359. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0229359.
eCollection 2020.

Response to vanadate exposure in Ochrobactrum tritici strains.

Almeida MC(1), Branco R(1), Morais PV(1).

Author information: 
(1)CEMMPRE, Centre for Mechanical Engineering, Materials and Processes,
Department of Life Sciences, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.

Vanadium is a transition metal that has been added recently to the EU list of Raw
Critical Metals. The growing needs of vanadium primarily in the steel industry
justify its increasing economic value. However, because mining of vanadium
sources (i. e. ores, concentrates and vanadiferous slags) is expanding, so is
vanadium environmental contamination. Bioleaching comes forth as smart strategy
to deal with supply demand and environmental contamination. It requires organisms
that are able to mobilize the metal and at the same time are resistant to the
leachate generated. Here, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying
vanadium resistance in Ochrobactrum tritici strains. The highly resistant strain 
5bvl1 was able to grow at concentrations > 30 mM vanadate, while the O. tritici
type strain only tolerated < 3 mM vanadate concentrations. Screening of O.
tritici single mutants (chrA, chrC, chrF and recA) growth during vanadate
exposure revealed that vanadate resistance was associated with chromate
resistance mechanisms (in particular ChrA, an efflux pump and ChrC, a superoxide 
dismutase). We also showed that sensitivity to vanadate was correlated with
increased accumulation of vanadate intracellularly, while in resistant cells this
was not found. Other up-regulated proteins found during vanadate exposure were
ABC transporters for methionine and iron, suggesting that cellular responses to
vanadate toxicity may also induce changes in unspecific transport and chelation
of vanadate.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0229359 
PMCID: PMC7039435
PMID: 32092126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

