
1. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Jul 28;30(7):996-1004. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1912.12030.

Removal of Chromium (VI) by Escherichia coli Cells Expressing Cytoplasmic or
Surface-Displayed ChrB: a Comparative Study.

Zhou X(1), Li J(1), Wang W(1), Yang F(1), Fan B(1), Zhang C(1), Ren X(1), Liang
F(1), Cheng R(2), Jiang F(1), Zhou H(1), Yang J(1), Tan G(1), Lyu J(1), Wang
W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory for Technology and Application of Model
Organisms, School of Laboratory Medicine and Life Sciences, Wenzhou Medical
University, Wenzhou 325035, Zhejiang, P.R. China.
(2)School of Public Health and Management, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou
325035, Zhejiang, P.R. China.

Various genetically engineered microorganisms have been developed for the removal
of heavy metal contaminants. Metal biosorption by whole-cell biosorbents can be
enhanced by overproduction of metal-binding proteins/peptides in the cytoplasm or
on the cell surface. However, few studies have compared the biosorption capacity 
of whole cells expressing intracellular or surface-displayed metal-adsorbing
proteins. In this study, several constructs were prepared for expressing
intracellular and surface-displayed Ochrobactrum tritici 5bvl1 ChrB in
Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) cells. E. coli cells expressing surface-displayed ChrB
removed more Cr(VI) from aqueous solutions than cells with cytoplasmic ChrB under
the same conditions. However, intracellular ChrB was less susceptible to
variation in extracellular conditions (pH and ionic strength), and more
effectively removed Cr(VI) from industrial wastewater than the surface-displayed 
ChrB at low pH (<3). An adsorptiondesorption experiment demonstrated that
compared with intracellular accumulation, cell-surface adsorption is reversible, 
which allows easy desorption of the adsorbed metal ions and regeneration of the
bioadsorbent. In addition, an intrinsic ChrB protein fluorescence assay suggested
that pH and salinity may influence the Cr(VI) adsorption capacity of
ChrB-expressing E. coli cells by modulating the ChrB protein conformation.
Although the characteristics of ChrB may not be universal for all metal-binding
proteins, our study provides new insights into different engineering strategies
for whole-cell biosorbents for removing heavy metals from industrial effluents.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1912.12030 
PMID: 32238765 

