
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2019 Nov;103(21-22):8853-8861. doi:
10.1007/s00253-019-10160-2. Epub 2019 Oct 23.

Biosynthesis of bismuth selenide nanoparticles using chalcogen-metabolizing
bacteria.

Kuroda M(1), Suda S(1), Sato M(1), Ayano H(1)(2), Ohishi Y(1), Nishikawa H(3),
Soda S(4), Ike M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Sustainable Energy and Environmental Engineering, Graduate School 
of Engineering, Osaka University, 2-1 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka, 565-0871, Japan.
(2)Kurita Water Industries Ltd, 1-1 Kawada, Nogi-machi, Shimotsuga-Gun, Tochigi, 
329-0105, Japan.
(3)Joining and Welding Research Institute, Osaka University, 11-1 Mihogaoka,
Osaka, Ibaraki, 567-0047, Japan.
(4)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of Science and
Engineering, Ritsumeikan University, 1-1-1 Noji-higashi, Kusatsu, Shiga,
525-8577, Japan.
(5)Division of Sustainable Energy and Environmental Engineering, Graduate School 
of Engineering, Osaka University, 2-1 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka, 565-0871, Japan.
ike@see.eng.osaka-u.ac.jp.

Cost and energy reductions in the production process of bismuth chalcogenide (BC)
semiconductor materials are essential to make thermoelectric generators comprised
of BCs profitable and CO2 neutral over their life cycle. In this study, as an
eco-friendly production method, bismuth selenide (Bi2Se3) nanoparticles were
synthesized using the following five strains of chalcogen-metabolizing bacteria: 
Pseudomonas stutzeri NT-I, Pseudomonas sp. RB, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia TI-1,
Ochrobactrum anthropi TI-2, and O. anthropi TI-3 under aerobic conditions. All
strains actively volatilized selenium (Se) by reducing selenite, possibly to
organoselenides. In the growth media containing bismuth (Bi) and Se, all strains 
removed Bi and Se concomitantly and synthesized nanoparticles containing Bi and
Se as their main components. Particles synthesized by strain NT-I had a
theoretical elemental composition of Bi2Se3, whereas those synthesized by other
strains contained a small amount of sulfur in addition to Bi and Se, making
strain NT-I the best Bi2Se3 synthesizer among the strains used in this study. The
particle sizes were 50-100 nm in diameter, which is sufficiently small for
nanostructured semiconductor materials that exhibit quantum size effect.
Successful synthesis of Bi2Se3 nanoparticles could be attributed to the high
Se-volatilizing activities of the bacterial strains. Selenol-containing compounds
as intermediates of Se-volatilizing metabolic pathways, such as methane selenol
and selenocysteine, may play an important role in biosynthesis of Bi2Se3.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-019-10160-2 
PMID: 31642950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

