
1. Chemosphere. 2020 Jan;238:124663. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2019.124663. Epub
2019 Aug 24.

Multi-approach analysis to assess the chromium(III) immobilization by
Ochrobactrum anthropi DE2010.

Villagrasa E(1), Ballesteros B(2), Obiol A(1), Millach L(1), Esteve I(1), Solé
A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departament de Genètica i Microbiologia. Facultat de Biociències. Universitat 
Autònoma de Barcelona. Bellaterra, Cerdanyola del Vallès, 08193 Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Catalan Institute of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (ICN2), CSIC and BIST,
Campus UAB, Bellaterra, 08193 Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Departament de Genètica i Microbiologia. Facultat de Biociències. Universitat 
Autònoma de Barcelona. Bellaterra, Cerdanyola del Vallès, 08193 Barcelona, Spain.
Electronic address: antoni.sole@uab.cat.

Ochrobactrum anthropi DE2010 is a microorganism isolated from Ebro Delta
microbial mats and able to resist high doses of chromium(III) due to its capacity
to tolerate, absorb and accumulate this metal. The effect of this pollutant on
O. anthropi DE2010 has been studied assessing changes in viability and biomass,
sorption yields and removal efficiencies. Furthermore, and for the first time,
its capacity for immobilizing Cr(III) from culture media was tested by a
combination of High Angle Annular Dark Field (HAADF) Scanning Transmission
Electron Microscopy (STEM) imaging coupled to Energy Dispersive X-ray
spectroscopy (EDX). The results showed that O. anthropi DE2010 was grown
optimally at 0-2 mM Cr(III). On the other hand, from 2 to 10 mM Cr(III) microbial
plate counts, growth rates, cell viability, and biomass decreased while
extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) production increases. Furthermore, this 
bacterium had a great ability to remove Cr(III) at 10 mM (q = 950.00 mg g-1)
immobilizing it mostly in bright polyphosphate inclusions and secondarily on the 
cellular surface at the EPS level. Based on these results, O. anthropi DE2010
could be considered as a potential agent for bioremediation in Cr(III)
contaminated environments.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2019.124663 
PMID: 31472343  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

