
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jan 30;10:3083. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.03083. eCollection 
2019.

Taxonomic Organization of the Family Brucellaceae Based on a Phylogenomic
Approach.

Leclercq SO(1), Cloeckaert A(1), Zygmunt MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)INRA, Infectiologie et Santé Publique, Université de Tours, Nouzilly, France.

Deciphering the evolutionary history of pathogenic bacteria and their near
neighbors may help to understand the genetic or ecological bases which led to
their pathogenic behavior. The Brucellaceae family comprises zoonotic pathogenic 
species belonging to the genus Brucella as well as the environmental genus
Ochrobactrum for which some species are considered as opportunistic pathogens.
Here, we used a phylogenomic approach including a set of 145 Brucellaceae genomes
representative of the family diversity and more than 40 genomes of the order
Rhizobiales to infer the taxonomic relationships between the family's species.
Our results clarified some unresolved phylogenetic ambiguities, conducting to the
exclusion of Mycoplana spp. out of the family Brucellaceae and the positioning of
all Brucella spp. as a single genomic species within the current Ochrobactrum
species diversity. Additional analyses also revealed that Ochrobactrum spp.
separate into two clades, one comprising mostly environmental species while the
other one includes the species considered as pathogens (Brucella spp.) or
opportunistic pathogens (mainly O. anthropi, O. intermedium, and O.
pseudintermedium). Finally, we show that O. intermedium is undergoing a beginning
of genome reduction suggestive of an ongoing ecological niche specialization, and
that some lineages of O. intermedium and O. anthropi may shift toward an adaption
to the human host.

Copyright © 2020 Leclercq, Cloeckaert and Zygmunt.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.03083 
PMCID: PMC7002325
PMID: 32082266 

