
1. World J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Jan 21;36(2):23. doi:
10.1007/s11274-020-2800-0.

Arsenic accumulation by a rhizosphere bacterial strain Ochrobactrum tritici
reduces rice plant arsenic levels.

Moens M(1), Branco R(1), Morais PV(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)CEMMPRE - Centre for Mechanical Engineering, Materials and Processes,
University of Coimbra, 3030-788, Coimbra, Portugal.
(2)CEMMPRE - Centre for Mechanical Engineering, Materials and Processes,
University of Coimbra, 3030-788, Coimbra, Portugal. pvmorais@ci.uc.pt.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, FCTUC, University of Coimbra, 3004-517, Coimbra, 
Portugal. pvmorais@ci.uc.pt.

Arsenic naturally occurs in the earth's crust and can be introduced in the
environment by human activities. Agricultural practices in arsenic-contaminated
environments pose a threat to human health. The contamination of crops
contributes to the metalloid's introduction in the food chain. This study aims to
test the hypotheses that the inoculation of a hyperaccumulator rhizobacterial
strain, Ochrobactrum tritici As5, to the rhizosphere of rice plants reduces the
arsenic presence inside the tissue of the rice plants and reduces the inhibitory 
effect of the metalloid on the plant's growth parameters. Inoculation of the
hyperaccumulating strain O. tritici As5 showed the lowest concentration of
arsenic in the plant's tissue (2.6 fold lower than sterile plants), compared to
the unmodified type O. tritici SCII24 and sterile rice plants. The inoculation of
the type strain SCII24 also led to a decrease in arsenic concentration in the
plant tissue compared with sterile plants (1.6 fold lower than sterile plants).
The difference in arsenic presence in shoots was smaller among treatment groups
than in the roots, showing a similar trend. The inoculation of the
hyperaccumulator As5 strain alleviated some of the toxic effects of arsenic on
shoot growth compared to inoculation of the unmodified type strain. All these
findings together, contribute to our understanding of the interplay between
arsenic pollution, plants and their rhizobacteria, especially the role of
bioaccumulation of metal(oids) by rhizobacteria, and provide important
information on the prevention of arsenic uptake by crops and the development of
phytostabilizers.

DOI: 10.1007/s11274-020-2800-0 
PMID: 31965334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

