
1. Genomics. 2020 Sep;112(5):3003-3012. doi: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2020.04.030. Epub 2020 
May 17.

Pan-genomics of Ochrobactrum species from clinical and environmental origins
reveals distinct populations and possible links.

Gohil K(1), Rajput V(2), Dharne M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad, India;
National Collection of Industrial Microorganisms (NCIM), CSIR-National Chemical
Laboratory, Pune, India.
(2)National Collection of Industrial Microorganisms (NCIM), CSIR-National
Chemical Laboratory, Pune, India.
(3)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad, India;
National Collection of Industrial Microorganisms (NCIM), CSIR-National Chemical
Laboratory, Pune, India. Electronic address: ms.dharne@ncl.res.in.

Ochrobactrum genus is comprised of soil-dwelling Gram-negative bacteria mainly
reported for bioremediation of toxic compounds. Since last few years, mainly two 
species of this genus, O. intermedium and O. anthropi were documented for causing
infections mostly in the immunocompromised patients. Despite such ubiquitous
presence, study of adaptation in various niches is still lacking. Thus, to gain
insights into the niche adaptation strategies, pan-genome analysis was carried
out by comparing 67 genome sequences belonging to Ochrobactrum species.
Pan-genome analysis revealed it is an open pan-genome indicative of the
continuously evolving nature of the genus. The presence/absence of gene clusters 
also illustrated the unique presence of antibiotic efflux transporter genes and
type IV secretion system genes in the clinical strains while the genes of solvent
resistance and exporter pumps in the environmental strains. A phylogenomic
investigation based on 75 core genes depicted better and robust phylogenetic
resolution and topology than the 16S rRNA gene. To support the pan-genome
analysis, individual genomes were also investigated for the mobile genetic
elements (MGE), antibiotic resistance genes (ARG), metal resistance genes (MRG)
and virulence factors (VF). The analysis revealed the presence of MGE, ARG, and
MRG in all the strains which play an important role in the species evolution
which is in agreement with the pan-genome analysis. The average nucleotide
identity (ANI) based on the genetic relatedness between the Ochrobactrum species 
indicated a distinction between individual species. Interestingly, the ANI tool
was able to classify the Ochrobactrum genomes to the species level which were
assigned till the genus level on the NCBI database.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2020.04.030 
PMID: 32428556 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no competing interests.

