
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Apr 26;8(5). pii: E625. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8050625.

Kinetics and New Mechanism of Azoxystrobin Biodegradation by an Ochrobactrum
anthropi Strain SH14.

Feng Y(1)(2), Zhang W(1)(2), Pang S(1)(2), Lin Z(1)(2), Zhang Y(1)(2), Huang
Y(1)(2), Bhatt P(1)(2), Chen S(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Subtropical
Agro-bioresources, Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of Microbial Signals and
Disease Control, Integrative Microbiology Research Centre, South China
Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642, China.
(2)Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern Agriculture, Guangzhou 510642, China.

Azoxystrobin is one of the most popular strobilurin fungicides, widely used in
agricultural fields for decades.Extensive use of azoxystrobin poses a major
threat to ecosystems. However, little is known about the kinetics and mechanism
of azoxystrobin biodegradation. The present study reports a newly isolated
bacterial strain, Ochrobactrum anthropi SH14, utilizing azoxystrobin as a sole
carbon source, was isolated from contaminated soils. Strain SH14 degraded 86.3%
of azoxystrobin (50 μg·mL-1) in a mineral salt medium within five days. Maximum
specific degradation rate (qmax), half-saturation constant (Ks), and inhibition
constant (Ki) were noted as 0.6122 d-1, 6.8291 μg·mL-1, and 188.4680 μg·mL-1,
respectively.Conditions for strain SH14 based azoxystrobin degradation were
optimized by response surface methodology. Optimum degradation was determined to 
be 30.2 °C, pH 7.9, and 1.1 × 107 CFU·mL-1 of inoculum. Strain SH14 degraded
azoxystrobin via a novel metabolic pathway with the formation of
N-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-yl)-acetamide,2-amino-4-(4-chlorophenyl)-3-cyano-5,6-
dimethyl-pyridine, and 3-quinolinecarboxylic acid,6,8-difluoro-4-hydroxy-ethyl
ester as the main intermediate products, which were further transformed without
any persistent accumulative product. This is the first report of azoxystrobin
degradation pathway in a microorganism. Strain SH14 also degraded other
strobilurin fungicides, including kresoxim-methyl (89.4%), pyraclostrobin
(88.5%), trifloxystrobin (78.7%), picoxystrobin (76.6%), and fluoxastrobin
(57.2%) by following first-order kinetic model. Bioaugmentation of
azoxystrobin-contaminated soils with strain SH14 remarkably enhanced the
degradation of azoxystrobin, and its half-life was substantially reduced by 95.7 
and 65.6 days in sterile and non-sterile soils, respectively, in comparison with 
the controls without strain SH14. The study presents O. anthropi SH14 for
enhanced biodegradation of azoxystrobin and elaborates on the metabolic pathways 
to eliminate its residual toxicity from the environment.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8050625 
PMCID: PMC7284741
PMID: 32357564 

