
1. J Hazard Mater. 2019 Dec 15;380:120873. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2019.120873. Epub 
2019 Jul 12.

Isolation and characterization of a chlorate-reducing bacterium Ochrobactrum
anthropi XM-1.

Chen HW(1), Xu M(1), Ma XW(1), Tong ZH(2), Liu DF(1).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Urban Pollutant Conversion, Department of Applied
Chemistry, University of Science & Technology of China, Hefei, 230026, China.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory of Urban Pollutant Conversion, Department of Applied
Chemistry, University of Science & Technology of China, Hefei, 230026, China;
Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Polar Environment and Global Change, University 
of Science & Technology of China, Hefei, 230026, China. Electronic address:
zhtong@ustc.edu.cn.

A Gram-negative chlorate-reducing bacterial strain XM-1 was isolated. The 16S
rRNA gene sequence identified the isolate as Ochrobactrum anthropi XM-1, which
was the first strain of genus Ochrobactrum reported having the ability to reduce 
chlorate. The optimum growth temperature and pH for strain XM-1 to reduce
chlorate was found to be 30 °C and 5.0-7.5, respectively, under anaerobic
condition. Strain XM-1 could tolerate high chlorate concentration (200 mM), and
utilize a variety of carbohydrates (glucose, L-arabinose, D-fructose, sucrose),
glycerin and sodium citrate as electron donors. In addition, oxygen and nitrate
could be used as electron acceptors, but perchlorate could not be reduced. Enzyme
activities related to chlorate reducing were characterized in cell extracts.
Activities of chlorate reductase and chlorite dismutase could be detected in XM-1
cells grown under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions, implying the two enzymes
were constitutively expressed. This work suggests a high potential of applying
Ochrobactrum anthropi XM-1 for remediation of chlorate contamination.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2019.120873 
PMID: 31325697 

