
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jan 22;10:3161. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.03161. eCollection 
2019.

Oral Supplementation of Lead-Intolerant Intestinal Microbes Protects Against Lead
(Pb) Toxicity in Mice.

Zhai Q(1)(2)(3)(4), Qu D(1)(2), Feng S(1)(2), Yu Y(1)(2), Yu L(1)(2), Tian
F(1)(2), Zhao J(1)(2), Zhang H(1)(2)(5)(6), Chen W(1)(2)(3)(7).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University,
Wuxi, China.
(2)School of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.
(3)Wuxi Translational Medicine Research Center and Jiangsu Translational Medicine
Research Institute, Wuxi, China.
(4)International Joint Research Laboratory for Probiotics, Jiangnan University,
Wuxi, China.
(5)National Engineering Research Center for Functional Food, Wuxi, China.
(6)(Yangzhou) Institute of Food Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Yangzhou,
China.
(7)Beijing Innovation Center of Food Nutrition and Human Health, Beijing
Technology and Business University, Beijing, China.

Oral exposure to the heavy metal lead (Pb) causes various dysfunctions in
animals. However, the influence of gut bacteria on Pb absorption,
bioaccumulation, and excretion is largely unknown. In this study, we use a mouse 
model to investigate the relationship between gut microbiota, Pb-intolerant
intestinal microbes and Pb toxicity. First, mice were treated with a
broad-spectrum antibiotic cocktail to deplete their gut microbiota, and were then
acutely and orally exposed to Pb at 1304 mg/kg for 3 days. Compared to the
control mice, antibiotic-treated mice had increased Pb concentrations in the
blood and primary organs and decreased Pb fecal concentrations, suggesting that
gut microbiota limited the Pb burden that developed from acute oral Pb exposure. 
Next, three Pb-intolerant gut microbes, Akkermansia muciniphila, Faecalibacterium
prausnitzii, and Oscillibacter ruminantium, were orally administered to mice, and
their effects against Pb toxicity were evaluated. F. prausnitzii treatment
significantly promoted the fecal Pb excretion and reduced Pb concentrations in
blood (from 152.70 ± 25.62 μg/dL to 92.20 ± 24.33 μg/dL) and primary tissues.
Supplementation with O. ruminantium significantly decreased Pb concentrations in 
blood (from 152.70 ± 25.62 μg/dL to 104.60 ± 29.85 μg/dL) and kidney (from 7.30 ±
1.08 μg/g to 5.64 ± 0.79 μg/g). Treatment with F. prausnitzii and O. ruminantium 
also upregulated tight junction (TJ) protein expression and the production of
short-chain fatty acids by colonic microbiota, and showed protective effects
against liver and kidney toxicity. These results indicate the potential for
reducing Pb toxicity by the modulation of gut microbiota.

Copyright © 2020 Zhai, Qu, Feng, Yu, Yu, Tian, Zhao, Zhang and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.03161 
PMCID: PMC6987320
PMID: 32038590 

