
1. Nutrients. 2020 Feb 20;12(2). pii: E548. doi: 10.3390/nu12020548.

Calcium Oxalate Nephrolithiasis and Gut Microbiota: Not just a Gut-Kidney Axis. A
Nutritional Perspective.

Ticinesi A(1)(2), Nouvenne A(1)(2), Chiussi G(1), Castaldo G(1), Guerra A(1)(3), 
Meschi T(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Geriatric-Rehabilitation Department, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di
Parma, Via Antonio Gramsci 14, 43126 Parma, Italy.
(2)Microbiome Research Hub, University of Parma, Parco Area delle Scienze 11/A,
43124 Parma, Italy.
(3)Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Parma, Via Antonio Gramsci
14, 43126 Parma, Italy.

Recent studies have shown that patients with kidney stone disease, and
particularly calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis, exhibit dysbiosis in their fecal
and urinary microbiota compared with controls. The alterations of microbiota go
far beyond the simple presence and representation of Oxalobacter formigenes, a
well-known symbiont exhibiting a marked capacity of degrading dietary oxalate and
stimulating oxalate secretion by the gut mucosa. Thus, alterations of the
intestinal microbiota may be involved in the pathophysiology of calcium kidney
stones. However, the role of nutrition in this gut-kidney axis is still unknown, 
even if nutritional imbalances, such as poor hydration, high salt, and animal
protein intake and reduced fruit and vegetable intake, are well-known risk
factors for kidney stones. In this narrative review, we provide an overview of
the gut-kidney axis in nephrolithiasis from a nutritional perspective,
summarizing the evidence supporting the role of nutrition in the modulation of
microbiota composition, and their relevance for the modulation of lithogenic
risk.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12020548 
PMCID: PMC7071363
PMID: 32093202 

