
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Apr 23;11:672. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00672. eCollection
2020.

Abundance, Functional, and Evolutionary Analysis of Oxalyl-Coenzyme A
Decarboxylase in Human Microbiota.

Jiang T(1), Chen W(1), Cao L(1), He Y(1), Zhou H(1), Mao H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical
University, Fuzhou, China.

Oxalic acid and its oxalate salts have been linked to kidney stones and other
health problems and about 80% kidney stones are made up of calcium oxalate.
Oxalyl coenzyme A decarboxylase (OXC) is a key enzyme in the catabolism of
oxalate. In this study, we performed bioinformatic and biochemical analysis of
OXC. First, we mined the OXC sequences from a public protein database and
collected 1396 putative OXC sequences. These sequences were widely spread and
mainly distributed in Actinobacteria, Alphaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria,
and Betaproteobacteria and classified into seven clusters. The phylogenetic
relationship and evolutionary rate of the 7 clusters showed that OXC are highly
conserved. Second, the abundance of the different clusters of OXC was explored in
380 human microbiome datasets, which showed that OXCs in Cluster 1 were
relatively high in the gut while OXCs in Clusters 2-4 were relatively enriched in
the vagina. Third, we measured the activity of one OXC from Mycobacterium
mageritense (OXCmm) in Cluster 3, in which there was no experimentally
characterized enzymes. Mutation analysis showed that OXCmm shared the same active
sites with the OXC from Oxalobacter formigenes. Taken together, this analysis
provides a better insight into the distribution and catalysis of OXC and further 
potential alternative application of OXC active bacteria as probiotics in the
management of kidney stone disease.

Copyright Â© 2020 Jiang, Chen, Cao, He, Zhou and Mao.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00672 
PMCID: PMC7190790
PMID: 32390974 

