
1. Curr Opin Nephrol Hypertens. 2020 Jul;29(4):400-406. doi:
10.1097/MNH.0000000000000613.

Lessons from rodent gastric bypass model of enteric hyperoxaluria.

Kwenda EP(1), Rabley AK, Canales BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, College of Medicine, University of Florida,
Gainesville, Florida, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The aim of the article is to review studies on bone health and
oxalate metabolism/therapeutics in the obese rodent model of Roux-en-Y gastric
bypass (RYGB) and examine pathways to decrease procedural morbidity.
RECENT FINDINGS: Compared with controls, RYGB rodents have up to 40-fold more fat
in their stool (steatorrhea) which positively correlates to increased urinary
oxalate. These unabsorbed intestinal fatty acids bind calcium and prevent gut
calcium oxalate formation, increasing soluble luminal oxalate availability and
absorption (enteric hyperoxaluria). When intraluminal fecal fat exceeded about
175 mg/24 h in our model, more paracellular and transcellular oxalate transport
across the distal colon occurred. Increasing dietary calcium and colonization
with Oxalobacter formigenes reduced hyperoxaluria, whereas vitamin B6
supplementation did not. RYGB animals, when severely calcium deficient, had bone 
mineral density loss that could not be rescued with vitamin D supplementation.
SUMMARY: The findings of hyperoxaluria, steatorrhea, and decreased bone mineral
density are seen in both human and rodent RYGB. Our model suggests that a
low-fat, low-oxalate diet combined with calcium supplementation can decrease
urinary oxalate and improve skeletal bone health. Our model is a useful tool to
study renal and bone RYGB effects. Studies of longer duration are required to
further evaluate mechanisms of disease and durability of therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1097/MNH.0000000000000613 
PMID: 32398610 

