
1. Int Urol Nephrol. 2020 Sep 2. doi: 10.1007/s11255-020-02627-3. [Epub ahead of
print]

Oxalobacter formigenes reduce the risk of kidney stones in patients exposed to
oral antibiotics: a case-control study.

Ravikumar Y(1), Begum RF(1), Velmurugan R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Vels Institute 
of Science Technology and Advanced Studies, Chennai, 600 017, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Vels Institute 
of Science Technology and Advanced Studies, Chennai, 600 017, India.
ramaiyan.dr@gmail.com.

This is the first prospective study to investigate the association between kidney
stones, bone mineral density, serum testosterone, colon cancer and O. formigenes 
colonization. 40 kidney stone patients and 85 controls were enrolled. O.
formigenes colonization was established. BMD was examined from T- and Z-scores
using dual energy absorptiometry. O. formigenes was found in 28 of 40 cases and
80 of 85 controls. BMD was significantly reduced in patients (p < 0.05). The
evaluation revealed a significant association between lowered O. formigenes
colonization and low testosterone. Urinary calcium and oxalates levels were
greater in patient. Serum testosterone and urinary citrate concentrations was
reduced in patients with a significant difference. Also an association between O.
formigenes and colon cancer was noted. Absence of O. formigenes might stand for a
pathogenic factor in calcium oxalate stone, low bone mineral density, low
testosterone levels and also colon cancer, when antibiotics are prescribed
generously.

DOI: 10.1007/s11255-020-02627-3 
PMID: 32880090 

