
1. Urolithiasis. 2020 Feb;48(1):1-8. doi: 10.1007/s00240-019-01144-y. Epub 2019 Jun 
14.

Induction of enteric oxalate secretion by Oxalobacter formigenes in mice does not
require the presence of either apical oxalate transport proteins Slc26A3 or
Slc26A6.

Hatch M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Immunology and Laboratory Medicine, College of
Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, 32610, USA. hatchma@ufl.edu.

Oxalobacter sp. promotion of enteric oxalate excretion, correlating with
reductions in urinary oxalate excretion, was previously reported in rats and
mice, but the mechanistic basis for this affect has not been described. The main 
objective of the present study was to determine whether the apical oxalate
transport proteins, PAT1 (slc26a6) and DRA (slc26a3), are involved in mediating
the Oxalobacter-induced net secretory flux across colonized mouse cecum and
distal colon. We measured unidirectional and net fluxes of oxalate across tissues
removed from colonized PAT1 and DRA knockout (KO) mice and also across two double
knockout (dKO) mouse models with primary hyperoxaluria, type 1 (i.e., deficient
in alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase; AGT KO), including PAT1/AGT dKO and
DRA/AGT dKO mice compared to non-colonized mice. In addition, urinary oxalate
excretion was measured before and after the colonization procedure. The results
demonstrate that Oxalobacter can induce enteric oxalate excretion in the absence 
of either apical oxalate transporter and urinary oxalate excretion was reduced in
all colonized genotypes fed a 1.5% oxalate-supplemented diet. We conclude that
there are other, as yet unidentified, oxalate transporters involved in mediating 
the directional changes in oxalate transport across the Oxalobacter-colonized
mouse large intestine.

DOI: 10.1007/s00240-019-01144-y 
PMCID: PMC6911034 [Available on 2021-02-01]
PMID: 31201468 

