
1. Molecules. 2020 Jun 4;25(11). pii: E2618. doi: 10.3390/molecules25112618.

Optimization of Protective Agents for The Freeze-Drying of Paenibacillus polymyxa
Kp10 as a Potential Biofungicide.

Nasran HS(1), Mohd Yusof H(1), Halim M(1)(2), Abdul Rahman N(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioprocess Technology, Faculty of Biotechnology and Biomolecular
Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Selangor 43400, Malaysia.
(2)Bioprocessing and Biomanufacturing Research Centre, Faculty of Biotechnology
and Biomolecular Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Selangor 43400,
Malaysia.

Anthracnose is a fungal disease causing major losses in crop production. Chemical
fungicides widely used in crop plantations to combat fungal infections can be a
threat to the environment and humans in the long term. Recently, biofungicides
have gained much interest as an alternative to chemical fungicides due to their
environmentally friendly nature. Biofungicide products in powder form can be
formulated using the freeze-drying technique to provide convenient storage.
Protective agent formulation is needed in maintaining the optimal viable cells of
biofungicide products. In this study, 8.10 log colony-forming unit (CFU)/mL was
the highest cell viability of Paenibacillus polymyxa Kp10 at 22 h during
incubation. The effects of several selected protective agents on the viability of
P. polymyxa Kp10 after freeze-drying were studied. Response surface methodology
(RSM) was used for optimizing formulation for the protective agents. The
combination of lactose (10% w/v), skim milk (20% w/v), and sucrose (27.5% w/v)
was found to be suitable for preserving P. polymyxa Kp10 during freeze-drying.
Further, P. polymyxa Kp10 demonstrated the ability to inhibit fungal pathogens,
Colletotrichum truncatum and C. gloeosporioides, at 60.18% and 66.52% of
inhibition of radial growth, respectively.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25112618 
PMCID: PMC7321406
PMID: 32512825 

