
1. J Anim Sci. 2020 Feb 1;98(2). pii: skaa029. doi: 10.1093/jas/skaa029.

Profiling of the viable bacterial and fungal microbiota in fermented feeds using 
single-molecule real-time sequencing.

Yu J(1), Hou Q(2), Li W(2), Huang W(2), Mo L(2), Yao C(2), An X(2), Sun Z(2), Wei
H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Animal Science, College of Basic Medical Sciences,
Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Ministry of Education, 
Key Laboratory of Dairy Products Processing, Ministry of Agriculture, Inner
Mongolia Agricultural University, Huhhot, China.

Fermented concentrated feed has been widely recognized as an ideal feed in the
animal industry. In this study, we used a powerful method, coupling propidium
monoazide (PMA) pretreatment with single-molecule real-time (SMRT) sequencing
technology to compare the bacterial and fungal composition of feeds before and
after fermentation with four added lactic acid bacteria (LAB) inoculants (one
Lactobacillus casei strain and three L. plantarum strains). Five feed samples
consisting of corn, soybean meal, and wheat bran were fermented with LAB
additives for 3 d. Following anaerobic fermentation, the pH rapidly decreased,
and the mean numbers of LAB increased from 106 to 109 colony-forming units
(cfu)/g fresh matter. SMRT sequencing results showed that the abundance and
diversity of bacteria and fungi in the feed were significantly higher before
fermentation than after fermentation. Fifteen bacterial species and eight fungal 
genera were significantly altered following fermentation, and L. plantarum was
the dominant species (relative abundance 88.94%) in the post-fermentation group. 
PMA treatment revealed that the bacteria Bacillus cereus, B. circulans,
Alkaliphilus oremlandii, Cronobacter sakazakii, Paenibacillus barcinonensis, and 
P. amylolyticus (relative abundance >1%) were viable in the raw feed. After
fermentation, their relative abundances decreased sharply to <0.2%; however,
viable L. plantarum was still the dominant species post fermentation. We inferred
that our LAB additives grew rapidly and inhibited harmful microorganisms and
further improved feed quality. In addition, coupling PMA treatment with the
Pacific Biosciences SMRT sequencing technology was a powerful tool for providing 
accurate live microbiota profiling data in this study.

Â© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
American Society of Animal Science. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jas/skaa029 
PMCID: PMC7036599 [Available on 2021-02-04]
PMID: 32017844  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

