
1. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2020 Mar;12(1):39-47. doi:
10.1007/s12602-019-09541-w.

Assessment of Synthesis Machinery of Two Antimicrobial Peptides from
Paenibacillus alvei NP75.

Jagadeesan Y(1), Athinarayanan S(2), Ayub SBM(1), Balaiah A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Bharathidasan Institute of Technology, Anna
University, Room No. 124, New Academic Block - B, Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu,
620024, India.
(2)School of Applied Sciences, Edinburgh Napier University, Sighthill Court,
Edinburgh, EH11 4BN, UK.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Bharathidasan Institute of Technology, Anna
University, Room No. 124, New Academic Block - B, Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu,
620024, India. drananadaraj74@gmail.com.

Paenibacillus alvei NP75, a Gram-positive bacterium, produces two different
antimicrobial peptides, paenibacillin N and P, which has potent antimicrobial
activity against many clinical pathogens. The synthesis pattern of these
antimicrobial peptides by P. alvei NP75 was studied extensively. The results were
outstanding in a way that the paenibacillin N was synthesized irrespective of the
growth of bacteria (non-ribosomal mediated), whereas paenibacillin P production
was carried out by ribosomal mediated. In addition to the antimicrobial peptides,
P. alvei NP75 also produces an immunogenic extracellular protease to defend
itself from its own antimicrobial peptide, paenibacillin P. Furthermore, this
immunogenic protease production was impaired by the addition of protease
inhibitor, phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF). The sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)
treated strain (mutant) failed to produce paenibacillin P, whereas the production
of neither paenibacillin N nor the protease was affected by the plasmid curing.
The plasmid curing studies that divulge the genes responsible for the synthesis
of paenibacillin N and protease were found to be genome encoded, and
paenibacillin P was plasmid encoded. We are reporting, first of its kind, the
co-production of two different antimicrobial peptides from P. alvei NP75 through 
non-ribosomal and ribosomal pathways that could be used as effective antibiotics.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-019-09541-w 
PMID: 31001787 

