
1. Life Sci Alliance. 2020 Aug 6;3(10). pii: e202000847. doi:
10.26508/lsa.202000847. Print 2020 Oct.

Peptide-based quorum sensing systems in Paenibacillus polymyxa.

Voichek M(1), Maaß S(2), Kroniger T(2), Becher D(2), Sorek R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot,
Israel.
(2)Department of Microbial Proteomics, Institute of Microbiology, Center for
Functional Genomics of Microbes, University of Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(3)Department of Molecular Genetics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot,
Israel rotem.sorek@weizmann.ac.il.

Paenibacillus polymyxa is an agriculturally important plant growth-promoting
rhizobacterium. Many Paenibacillus species are known to be engaged in complex
bacteria-bacteria and bacteria-host interactions, which in other species were
shown to necessitate quorum sensing communication. However, to date, no quorum
sensing systems have been described in Paenibacillus Here, we show that the type 
strain P. polymyxa ATCC 842 encodes at least 16 peptide-based communication
systems. Each of these systems is comprised of a pro-peptide that is secreted to 
the growth medium and processed to generate a mature short peptide. Each peptide 
has a cognate intracellular receptor of the RRNPP family, and we show that
external addition of P. polymyxa communication peptides leads to reprogramming of
the transcriptional response. We found that these quorum sensing systems are
conserved across hundreds of species belonging to the Paenibacillaceae family,
with some species encoding more than 25 different peptide-receptor pairs,
representing a record number of quorum sensing systems encoded in a single
genome.

© 2020 Voichek et al.

DOI: 10.26508/lsa.202000847 
PMCID: PMC7425212
PMID: 32764104 

