
1. J Appl Microbiol. 2020 Sep;129(3):496-508. doi: 10.1111/jam.14653. Epub 2020 Apr 
27.

Sustainable management strategies for bacterial wilt of sweet peppers (Capsicum
annuum) and other Solanaceous crops.

Mamphogoro TP(1)(2), Babalola OO(2), Aiyegoro OA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gastro-Intestinal Microbiology and Biotechnology Unit, Agricultural Research
Council-Animal Production, Irene, South Africa.
(2)Food Security and Safety Niche Area, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural
Sciences, North-West University, Mmabatho, South Africa.

Pepper bacterial wilt is caused by the bacterial pathogen, Ralstonia
solanacearum. It is the most destructive disease of many Solanaceous crops such
as potatoes, tobacco, pepper, tomatoes and eggplant and is a significant source
of crop loss worldwide. Physical, cultural and chemical controls have been
employed to combat this destructive disease. However, none of these strategies
has been able to control the disease completely due to the broad host range and
genetic diversity of the pathogen, its prolonged survival in the soil and
survival on vegetation as a latent infection. Owing to co-management strategies, 
biological control is the best approach for human health and environmental
friendly motivations. It makes use of various antagonistic rhizobacteria and
epiphytic species such as Bacillus cereus, Pseudomonas putida, Bacillus subtilis,
Paenibacillus macerans, Serratia marcescens, Bacillus pumilus and Pseudomonas
fluorescens, which compete with and ultimately inhibit the growth of the
pathogen. The possible mechanisms of biocontrol by these species involve
multifaceted interactions between the host, pathogen and the antagonists. These
can involve competition for nutrients and space, plant-mediated systemic
resistance, siderophore production and production of extracellular cell wall
degrading enzymes to inhibit or suppress the growth of the bacterial wilt agent.

Â© 2020 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/jam.14653 
PMID: 32248611 

