
1. J Microbiol Methods. 2020 Sep 3;177:106048. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2020.106048.
[Epub ahead of print]

Detection of spore forming Paenibacillus macerans in raw milk.

Olajide AM(1), LaPointe G(2).

Author information: 
(1)CRIFS, Department of Food Science, University of Guelph, Ontario N1G 2W1,
Canada.
(2)CRIFS, Department of Food Science, University of Guelph, Ontario N1G 2W1,
Canada. Electronic address: glapoint@uoguelph.ca.

Paenibacillus macerans can cause spoilage of milk during extended storage.
However, the natural milk microbiota interferes with the enumeration of
Paenibacillus species in raw milk. In this study, a qualitative SYBR Green
real-time PCR assay based on the groEL gene was developed for detecting P.
macerans (PMassay) in raw milk and compared with one designed for total
Paenibacillus detection (TPassay). The specificity of the PMassay was confirmed
against a panel of dairy-related spore forming isolates. In the presence of
background DNA substituted up to 95%, P. macerans DNA could still be detected by 
the PMassay although interference occurred as non-target DNA substitution
increased. The PMassay was sensitive (detection limit of 2 log CFU/ml in milk)
and specific as non-P. macerans isolates gave a Ct > 30. After enrichment of raw 
milk for 7 days at 37 °C in Reinforced Clostridial Medium with D-cycloserine
(RCM-D) under anaerobiosis, Paenibacillus was detected in 10 of the 16 raw milk
samples tested. Enrichment in RCM-D yielded about 0.5 to 5.8 log CFU/ml total
Paenibacillus and 0.3 to 4.6 log CFU/ml P. macerans in the samples. The assay
could be useful in commercial settings, allowing a sensitive detection of P.
macerans.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mimet.2020.106048 
PMID: 32890571 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest There are no
conflicts of interest to be disclosed.

