
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Jul 24;9(8). pii: E442. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9080442.

Antimicrobial Activity against Paenibacillus larvae and Functional Properties of 
Lactiplantibacillus plantarum Strains: Potential Benefits for Honeybee Health.

Iorizzo M(1), Testa B(1), Lombardi SJ(1), Ganassi S(1), Ianiro M(1), Letizia
F(1), Succi M(1), Tremonte P(1), Vergalito F(1), Cozzolino A(1), Sorrentino E(1),
Coppola R(1), Petrarca S(2), Mancini M(1), De Cristofaro A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agriculture, Environmental and Food Sciences, University of
Molise, 86100 Campobasso, Italy.
(2)Consorzio Nazionale Produttori Apistici CONAPROA, 86100 Campobasso, Italy.

Paenibacillus larvae is the causative agent of American foulbrood (AFB), a severe
bacterial disease that affects larvae of honeybees. The present study evaluated, 
in vitro, antimicrobial activity of sixty-one Lactiplantibacillus plantarum
strains, against P. larvae ATCC 9545. Five strains (P8, P25, P86, P95 and P100)
that showed the greatest antagonism against P. larvae ATCC 9545were selected for 
further physiological and biochemical characterizations. In&nbsp; particular, the
hydrophobicity, auto-aggregation, exopolysaccharides production, osmotic
tolerance, enzymatic activity and carbohydrate assimilation patterns were
evaluated. The five L. plantarum selected strains showed suitable physical and
biochemical properties for their use as probiotics in the honeybee diet. The
selection and availability of new selected bacteria with good functional
characteristics and with antagonistic activity against P. larvae opens up
interesting perspectives for new biocontrol strategies of diseases such as AFB.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9080442 
PMCID: PMC7460353
PMID: 32722196 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest.

