
1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2020 May 5;198:110685. doi: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.110685.
[Epub ahead of print]

Heavy metals-resistant bacteria (HM-RB): Potential bioremediators of heavy
metals-stressed Spinacia oleracea plant.

Desoky EM(1), Merwad AM(2), Semida WM(3), Ibrahim SA(1), El-Saadony MT(4), Rady
MM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Botany Department, Faculty of Agriculture, Zagazig University, 44511, Zagazig,
Egypt.
(2)Soil Science Department, Faculty of Agriculture, Zagazig University, 44511,
Zagazig, Egypt.
(3)Horticulture Department, Faculty of Agriculture, Fayoum University, 63514,
Fayoum, Egypt.
(4)Microbiology Department, Faculty of Agriculture, Zagazig University, 44511,
Zagazig, Egypt.
(5)Botany Department, Faculty of Agriculture, Fayoum University, 63514, Fayoum,
Egypt. Electronic address: mmr02@fayoum.edu.eg.

Microorganism technologies can provide a potential alternative to traditional
methods of removing heavy metals to conserve agricultural soils. This study aimed
to identify and characterize heavy metals-resistant bacteria (HM-RB) isolated
from industry-affected soil and their desired impact as bioremediators of heavy
metals-stressed spinach plants. Three of 135 isolates were selected based on a
high level of resistance to heavy metals. Based on morphological and biochemical 
characteristics, the selected isolates were identified as Bacillus subtilis
subsp. spizizenii DSM 15029 T DSM (MA3), Paenibacillus jamilae DSM 13815 T DSM
(LA22), or Pseudomonas aeruginosa DSM 1117 DSM (SN36). Experiments were
implemented to investigate the three isolated HM-RB ability on improving
attributes of growth, physio-biochemistry, and components of the antioxidant
defense system of spinach plant exposed to the stress of cadmium (Cd2+; 2 mM),
lead (Pb2+; 2 mM) or 2 mM Cd2++2 mM Pb2+. Compared to control, Cd2+ or Pb2+
stress markedly lowered plant fresh and dry weights, leaf contents of
chlorophylls and carotenoids, rates of transpiration (Tr), net photosynthesis
(Pn) and stomatal conductance (gs), relative water content (RWC), and membrane
stability index (MSI). In contrast, contents of α.tochopherol (α.TOC), ascorbic
acid (AsA), glutathione (GSH), proline, soluble sugars, Cd2+, and Pb2+, as well
as activities of enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants were markedly elevated.
The application of HM-RB promoted the tolerance to heavy metal stress in spinach 
plants by improving Tr, Pn, gs, RWC, and MSI, while activities of enzymatic and
non-enzymatic antioxidants were suppressed. These results reflected positively in
promoting plant growth under heavy metal stress. Therefore, the application of
HM-RB as potential bioremediators may be a promising strategy for promoting plant
growth and productivity under heavy metal stress.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.110685 
PMID: 32387845 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
have no conflict of interest.

