
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 Mar 18;86(7). pii: e00004-20. doi:
10.1128/AEM.00004-20. Print 2020 Mar 18.

Engineering of Cyclodextrin Glycosyltransferase Reveals pH-Regulated Mechanism of
Enhanced Long-Chain Glycosylated Sophoricoside Specificity.

Han R(1)(2), Ni J(2), Zhou J(2), Dong J(2), Xu G(2), Ni Y(3)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of
Education, School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Industrial Biotechnology, Ministry of Education, School of
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Carbohydrate Chemistry and Biotechnology, Ministry of
Education, School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China
yni@jiangnan.edu.cn.

Sophoricoside glycosylated derivatives, especially long-chain glycosylated
sophoricosides (LCGS), have greatly improved water solubility compared with
sophoricoside. Here, cyclodextrin glycosyltransferase from Paenibacillus macerans
(PmCGTase) was employed for sophoricoside glycosylation. Saturation mutagenesis
of alanine 156, alanine 166, glycine 173, and leucine 174 was performed due to
their nonconservative properties among α-, β-, and γ-CGTases with different
product specificities. Variants L174P, A156V/L174P, and A156V/L174P/A166Y greatly
improved the product specificity for LCGS. pH significantly affected the extent
of glycosylation catalyzed by the variants. Further investigations revealed that 
the pH-regulated mechanism for LCGS synthesis mainly depends on a
disproportionation route at a lower pH (pH 4) and a cyclization-coupling route at
a higher pH (pH 8) and equivalent effects of cyclization-coupling and
disproportionation routes at pH 5. Whereas short-chain glycosylated
sophoricosides (SCGS) are primarily produced via disproportionation of
maltodextrin at pH 4 and secondary disproportionation of LCGS at pH 8. At pH 5,
SCGS synthesis mainly depends on a hydrolysis route by the wild type (WT) and a
secondary disproportionation route by variant A156V/L174P/A166Y. Kinetics
analysis showed a decreased Km value of variant A156V/L174P/A166Y. Dynamics
simulation results demonstrated that the improved LCGS specificity of the variant
is possibly attributed to the enhanced affinity to long-chain substrates, which
may be caused by the changes of hydrogen bond interactions at the -5, -6, and -7 
subsites. Our results reveal a pH-regulated mechanism for product specificity of 
CGTase and provide guidance for engineering CGTase toward products with different
sugar chain lengths.IMPORTANCE The low water solubility of sophoricoside
seriously limits its applications in the food and pharmaceutical industries.
Long-chain glycosylated sophoricosides show greatly improved water solubility.
Here, the product specificity of cyclodextrin glycosyltransferase (CGTase) for
long-chain glycosylated sophoricosides was significantly affected by pH. Our
results reveal the pH-regulated mechanism of the glycosylated product specificity
of CGTase. This work adds to our understanding of the synthesis of long-chain
glycosylated sophoricosides and provides guidance for exploring related product
specificity of CGTase based on pH regulation.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00004-20 
PMCID: PMC7082579
PMID: 32005733 

