
1. Metabolites. 2020 May 20;10(5). pii: E210. doi: 10.3390/metabo10050210.

Metabolic Profiling of PGPR-Treated Tomato Plants Reveal Priming-Related
Adaptations of Secondary Metabolites and Aromatic Amino Acids.

Mhlongo MI(1), Piater LA(1), Steenkamp PA(1), Labuschagne N(2), Dubery IA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Johannesburg, Auckland Park,
Johannesburg 2006, South Africa.
(2)Department of Plant and Soil Sciences, University of Pretoria, Hatfield,
Pretoria 0028, South Africa.

Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) are beneficial microbes in the
rhizosphere that can directly or indirectly stimulate plant growth. In addition, 
some can prime plants for enhanced defense against a broad range of pathogens and
insect herbivores. In this study, four PGPR strains (Pseudomonas fluorescens N04,
P. koreensis N19, Paenibacillus alvei T19, and Lysinibacillus sphaericus T22)
were used to induce priming in Solanum lycopersicum (cv. Moneymaker) plants.
Plants were inoculated with each of the four PGPRs, and plant tissues (roots,
stems, and leaves) were harvested at 24 h and 48 h post-inoculation.
Methanol-extracted metabolites were analyzed by ultra-high performance liquid
chromatography mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS). Chemometric methods were applied to 
mine the data and characterize the differential metabolic profiles induced by the
PGPR. The results revealed that all four strains induced defense-related
metabolic reprogramming in the plants, characterized by dynamic changes to the
metabolomes involving hydroxycinnamates, benzoates, flavonoids, and
glycoalkaloids. In addition, targeted analysis of aromatic amino acids indicated 
differential quantitative increases or decreases over a two-day period in
response to the four PGPR strains. The metabolic alterations point to an altered 
or preconditioned state that renders the plants primed for enhanced defense
responses. The results contribute to ongoing efforts in investigating and
unraveling the biochemical processes that define the PGPR priming phenomenon.

DOI: 10.3390/metabo10050210 
PMCID: PMC7281251
PMID: 32443694 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

