
1. Vet Sci. 2020 Aug 15;7(3). pii: E113. doi: 10.3390/vetsci7030113.

Honey as a Source of Environmental DNA for the Detection and Monitoring of Honey 
Bee Pathogens and Parasites.

Ribani A(1)(2), Utzeri VJ(1)(2), Taurisano V(1), Fontanesi L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural and Food Sciences, University of Bologna, Viale
Giuseppe Fanin 46, 40127 Bologna, Italy.
(2)GRIFFA s.r.l., Viale Giuseppe Fanin 48, 40127 Bologna, Italy.

Environmental DNA (eDNA) has been proposed as a powerful tool to detect and
monitor cryptic, elusive, or invasive organisms. We recently demonstrated that
honey constitutes an easily accessible source of eDNA. In this study, we
extracted DNA from 102 honey samples (74 from Italy and 28 from 17 other
countries of all continents) and tested the presence of DNA of nine honey bee
pathogens and parasites (Paenibacillus larvae, Melissococcus plutonius, Nosema
apis, Nosema ceranae, Ascosphaera apis,Lotmaria passim, Acarapis woodi, Varroa
destructor, and Tropilaelaps spp.) using qualitative PCR assays. All honey
samples contained DNA from V. destructor, confirming the widespread diffusion of 
this mite. None of the samples gave positive amplifications for N. apis, A.
woodi, and Tropilaelaps spp. M. plutonius was detected in 87% of the samples,
whereas the other pathogens were detected in 43% to 57% of all samples. The
frequency of Italian samples positive for P. larvae was significantly lower (49%)
than in all other countries (79%). The co-occurrence of positive samples for L.
passim and A. apis with N. ceranae was significant. This study demonstrated that 
honey eDNA can be useful to establish monitoring tools to evaluate the sanitary
status of honey bee populations.

DOI: 10.3390/vetsci7030113 
PMID: 32824137 

