
1. Int J Microbiol. 2020 Aug 27;2020:8895308. doi: 10.1155/2020/8895308. eCollection
2020.

In Vitro Modulator Effect of Total Extract from the Endophytic Paenibacillus
polymyxa RNC-D in Leishmania (Leishmania) amazonensis and Macrophages.

Neris DM(1), Ortolani LG(1), de Castro CA(1), Correia RO(1), Rodolpho JMA(1),
Camillo L(1), Nogueira CT(1), de Sousa CP(2), Anibal FF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Inflammation and Infectious Diseases, Department of Morphology
and Pathology, Federal University of São Carlos, São Carlos, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Microbiology and Biomolecules, Federal University of São Carlos,
São Carlos, Brazil.

Leishmaniases are diseases with high epidemiological relevance and wide
geographical distribution. In Brazil, Leishmania (Leishmania) amazonensis is
related to the tegumentary form of leishmaniasis. The treatment for those
diseases is problematic as the available drugs promote adverse effects in
patients. Therefore, it is important to find new therapeutic targets. In this
regard, one alternative is the study of biomolecules produced by endophytic
microorganisms. In this study, the total extract produced by the endophytic
Paenibacillus polymyxa RNC-D was used to evaluate the leishmanicidal, nitric
oxide, and cytokines production using RAW 264.7 macrophages. The results showed
that, in the leishmanicidal assay with L. amazonensis, EC50 values at the periods
of 24 and 48 hours were 0.624 mg/mL and 0.547 mg/mL, respectively. Furthermore,
the cells treated with the extract presented approximately 25% of infected cells 
with an average of 3 amastigotes/cell in the periods of 24 and 48 hours.
Regarding the production of cytokines in RAW 264.7 macrophages infected/treated
with the extract, a significant increase in TNF-α was observed at the periods of 
24 and 48 hours in the treated cells. The concentrations of IFN-γ and IL-12
showed significant increase in 48 hours. A significant decrease in IL-4 was
observed in all cells treated with the extract in 24 hours. It was observed in
the treated cells that the NO production by RAW 264.7 macrophages increased
between 48 and 72 hours. The endophytic Paenibacillus polymyxa RNC-D extract
modulates the mediators of inflammation produced by RAW 264.7 macrophages
promoting L. amazonensis death. The immunomodulatory effects might be a promising
target to develop new immunotherapeutic and antileishmanial drugs.

Copyright © 2020 Débora Meira Neris et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/8895308 
PMCID: PMC7474380
PMID: 32908533 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as potential conflicts of interest.

