
1. Can J Microbiol. 2020 Mar;66(3):214-227. doi: 10.1139/cjm-2019-0511. Epub 2020
Feb 3.

Paenibacillus polymyxa biofertilizer application in a tea plantation reduces soil
N2O by changing denitrifier communities.

Zhou S(1)(2)(3), Zeng X(1), Xu Z(4), Bai Z(2)(3), Xu S(4), Jiang C(3), Zhuang
G(2)(3), Xu S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Shenzhen DiDa Water Engineering Limited Company, Shenzhen 518116, P.R. China.
(2)Sino-Danish College, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing
100049, P.R. China.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory of Environmental Biotechnology, Research Center for
Eco-Environmental Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100085, P.R.
China.
(4)Agricultural College, Hunan Agricultural University, Changsha 414699, P.R.
China.

Increasing the use of nitrogen fertilizers in tea orchards has led to intense
nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions. Foliar application of Paenibacillus polymyxa
biofertilizer has been proven to be beneficial for organic tea production. In
this study, tea yield and quality were significantly improved after application
of P. polymyxa biofertilizer compared with the control but were not significantly
different from chemical fertilizer treatments. However, the average N2O fluxes in
tea fields treated with chemical fertilizers and biofertilizers (225 kg
N·ha-1·year-1 for both) were 50.6-973.7 and 0.6-29.1 times higher than those in
the control treatment, respectively. Pot experiments conducted to explore the
mechanism of N2O reduction induced by P. polymyxa biofertilizer showed that
applying P. polymyxa in addition to urea could reduce N2O fluxes by 36.5%-73.1%. 
Quantitative PCR analysis suggested that a significant increase in the quantity
of nirK and nosZ genes was linked to the reduction of N2O, and high-throughput
sequencing of nosZ revealed active and potentially efficient denitrifiers in
different treatments. Our findings suggest that P. polymyxa biofertilizer is in
line with the requirements of modern agriculture, which aims to increase product 
yield and quality while reducing negative environmental impacts.

DOI: 10.1139/cjm-2019-0511 
PMID: 32011910  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

