
1. J Biosci Bioeng. 2020 Sep;130(3):283-289. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2020.05.001. Epub
2020 Jun 4.

Isolation, characterization and cytoprotective effects against UV radiation of
exopolysaccharide produced from Paenibacillus polymyxa PYQ1.

Wang YQ(1), Huang JX(2), Zhou WW(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Biosystems Engineering and Food Science, Zhejiang Key Laboratory
for Agro-Food Processing, National-Local Joint Engineering Laboratory of
Intelligent Food Technology and Equipment, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, 
Zhejiang, China.
(2)HeZe (High-tech Zone) BioUnique Biotechnology Co. Ltd, Heze 274000, Shandong, 
China.
(3)College of Biosystems Engineering and Food Science, Zhejiang Key Laboratory
for Agro-Food Processing, National-Local Joint Engineering Laboratory of
Intelligent Food Technology and Equipment, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, 
Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: vivianzhou11@zju.edu.cn.

A novel exopolysaccharide (EPS) from Paenibacillus polymyxa PYQ1 was extracted,
well purified and characterized. This EPS was homogeneous glucomannan-type
polysaccharide with the average molecular weight of 4.38 × 106 Da. Structural
characterization indicated that the monosaccharides of EPS were pyranoses
connected by β-glycosidic linkages. Furthermore, our results showed the
protective benefits of EPS against UVC induced cytotoxicity in HaCaT cells
through scavenging excessive reactive oxygen species, mitigating the decrease of 
mitochondrial membrane potential, improving catalase activity and maintaining
membrane integrity. Taken together, this study qualified EPS from P. polymyxa
PYQ1 was a promising natural polymer which worth further investigation as a
skin-care agent.

Copyright © 2020 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier B.V.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2020.05.001 
PMID: 32507385 

