
1. FEBS J. 2020 Apr 30. doi: 10.1111/febs.15332. [Epub ahead of print]

Structural analysis of the reducing-end xylose-releasing exo-oligoxylanase Rex8A 
from Paenibacillus barcinonensis BP-23 deciphers its molecular specificity.

Jiménez-Ortega E(1), Valenzuela S(2)(3), Ramírez-Escudero M(1), Pastor FJ(2)(3), 
Sanz-Aparicio J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Macromolecular Crystallography and Structural Biology Department, Institute of
Physical-Chemistry 'Rocasolano', CSIC, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Biology, University of Barcelona,
Spain.
(3)Institute of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (IN2UB), University of Barcelona, 
Spain.

Reducing-end xylose-releasing exo-oligoxylanases (Rex) are GH8 enzymes that
depolymerize xylooligosaccharides complementing xylan degradation by
endoxylanases in an exo manner. We have studied Paenibacillus barcinonensis Rex8A
and showed the release of xylose from xylooligomers decorated with
methylglucuronic acid (UXOS) or with arabinose (AXOS). This gives the enzyme a
distinctive trait among known Rex, which show activity only on linear
xylooligosaccharides. The structure of the enzyme has been solved by X-ray
crystallography showing a (α/α)6 folding common to GH8 enzymes. Analysis of
inactived Rex8A-E70A complexed with xylotetraose revealed the existence of at
least four binding subsites in Rex8A, with the oligosaccharide occupying subsites
-3 to +1. The enzyme shows an extended Leu320-His321-Pro322 loop, common to other
Rex, which blocks the binding of longer substrates to positive subsites further
than +1 and seems responsible for the lack or diminished activity of Rex enzymes 
on xylan. Mutants with smaller residues in this loop failed to increase Rex8A
activity on the polymer. Analysis of the complexes with AXOS showed the
accommodation of arabinose at subsite -2, which cannot be allocated at subsite
-1. Arabinose substitutions at the xylose O2 or O3 are accommodated by
hydrophobic interaction and seem tolerated rather than recognized by Rex8A. A
strained binding of the branch is facilitated by the lack of direct polar
interactions of the xylose occupying this subsite, its water-mediated links
allowing some conformational flexibility of the sugar. The plasticity of Rex8A is
a notable property of the enzyme for its application in xylan deconstruction and 
upgrading. DATABASE: Structural data are available in PDB database under the
accession numbers 6SRD (native form), 6TPP (E70A mutant in complex with EDO),
6TOW (E70A in complex with Xyl4), 6SUD (L320A mutant in complex with xylose),
6SHY (L320A/H321S double mutant in complex with EDO), 6TO0 (E70A in complex with 
AX3), and 6TRH (E70A in complex with AX4).

© 2020 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.

DOI: 10.1111/febs.15332 
PMID: 32352213 

