
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 May;70(5):3134-3138. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004140.

Genome-based reclassification of Paenibacillus jamilae Aguilera et al. 2001 as a 
later heterotypic synonym of Paenibacillus polymyxa (Prazmowski 1880) Ash et al. 
1994.

Kwak MJ(1), Choi SB(1), Ha SM(1), Kim EH(2)(1), Kim BY(1), Chun J(3)(1).

Author information: 
(1)​ChunLab, Inc., JW Tower, 2477, Nambusunhwan-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul 06725,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Inha University, Incheon 22212, Republic of
Korea.
(3)​School of Biological Sciences & Inst. of Molecular Biology and Genetics,
Seoul National University, Seoul 151-742, Republic of Korea.

Paenibacillus is one of the genera that has high species diversity and
Paenibacillus polymyxa, the type species of the genus, is mainly isolated from
plant-associated environments. Among the plant-associated species, Paenibacillus 
jamilae B.3T (=CECT 5266T=DSM 13815T=KACC 10925T=KCTC 13919T) was proposed to be 
a novel species according to 16S rRNA gene similarity and DNA-DNA relatedness
with related species, including Paenibacillus polymyxa. Nevertheless, in the
description of Paenibacillus jamilae the used strain of Paenibacillus polymyxa
was not the type strain of this species. In this work we found that the type
strains of both species showed 16S rRNA gene similarity of 99.6 %. Therefore, in 
this study, we sequenced the genome of Paenibacillus jamilae KACC 10925T and
compared it with those of the type strain of Paenibacillus polymyxa ATCC 842T and
other phylogenetically related species. Genome relatedness value calculated by
DNA-DNA hybridization between type strains of Paenibacillus polymyxa and
Paenibacillus jamilae was 73.5 %, which is higher than the threshold value
(70 %). For more objective and repeatable results of genome relatedness, we
analysed an average nucleotide identity (ANI) between two strains. Our results
showed that ANI value between the type strains of Paenibacillus jamilae and
Paenibacillus polymyxa is 98.5 %, a phylogenetic distance also higher than the
threshold values (95~96 %). These values were proposed by Yoon et al. (2017). In 
addition, their phylogenetic distance based on 92 bacterial core genes is highly 
close compared to other species. These mean that Paenibacillus jamilae and
Paenibacillus polymyxa should be reclassified as a single species. Based on the
results from genomic level comparison as well as reexamination results of
physiological and chemotaxonomic features, we propose reclassification of
Paenibacillus jamilae as a later heterotypic synonym of Paenibacillus polymyxa.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004140 
PMID: 32375953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

