
1. Microb Genom. 2020 Feb;6(2). doi: 10.1099/mgen.0.000329.

Paenibacillus larvae bacteriophages: obscure past, promising future.

Tsourkas PK(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Nevada Las Vegas, Las Vegas, NV, USA.

Paenibacillus larvae is a Gram-positive, spore-forming bacterium that is the
causative agent of American foulbrood (AFB), the most devastating bacterial
disease of the honeybee. P. larvae is antibiotic resistant, complicating
treatment efforts. Bacteriophages that target P. larvae are rapidly emerging as a
promising treatment. The first P. larvae phages were isolated in the 1950s, but
as P. larvae was not antibiotic resistant at the time, interest in them remained 
scant. Interest in P. larvae phages has grown rapidly since the first P. larvae
phage genome was sequenced in 2013. Since then, the number of sequenced P. larvae
phage genomes has reached 48 and is set to grow further. All sequenced P. larvae 
phages encode a conserved N-acetylmuramoyl-l-alanine amidase that is responsible 
for cleaving the peptidoglycan cell wall of P. larvae. All P. larvae phages also 
encode either an integrase, excisionase or Cro/CI, indicating that they are
temperate. In the last few years, several studies have been published on using P.
larvae phages and the P. larvae phage amidase as treatments for AFB. Studies were
conducted on infected larvae in vitro and also on hives in the field. The phages 
have a prophylactic effect, preventing infection, and also a curative effect,
helping resolve infection. P. larvae phages have a narrow range, lysing only P.
larvae, and are unable to lyse even related Paenibacillus species. P. larvae
phages thus appear to be safe to use and effective as treatment for AFB, and
interest in them in the coming years will continue to grow.

DOI: 10.1099/mgen.0.000329 
PMCID: PMC7067210
PMID: 32111267  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

