
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Sep 14;21(18). pii: E6736. doi: 10.3390/ijms21186736.

In Vitro Antagonistic Effect of Gut Bacteriota Isolated from Indigenous Honey
Bees and Essential Oils against Paenibacillus Larvae.

Kačániová M(1)(2), Terentjeva M(3), Žiarovská J(4), Kowalczewski PŁ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Fruit Science, Viticulture and Enology, Faculty of Horticulture 
and Landscape Engineering, Slovak University of Agriculture, Tr. A. Hlinku 2,
94976 Nitra, Slovakia.
(2)Department of Bioenergetics, Food Analysis and Microbiology, Institute of Food
Technology and Nutrition, University of Rzeszow, Cwiklinskiej 1, 35-601 Rzeszow, 
Poland.
(3)Institute of Food and Environmental Hygiene, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
Latvia University of Life Sciences and Technologies, K. Helmaņaiela 8, LV-3004
Jelgava, Latvia.
(4)Department of Plant Genetics and Breeding, Faculty of Agrobiology and Food
Resources, Slovak University of Agriculture, Tr. A. Hlinku 2, 94976 Nitra,
Slovakia.
(5)Department of Food Technology of Plant Origin, Poznań University of Life
Sciences, 31 Wojska Polskiego St., 60-624 Poznań, Poland.

The aim of study was to isolate and identify the gut bacteria of Apis mellifera
and to evaluate antagonistic effect of the bacteriota against Paenibacillus
larvae, which causes American foulbrood (AFB) in honeybees. The dilution plating 
method was used for the quantification of selected microbial groups from
digestive tract of bees, with an emphasis on the bacteriota of the bees'
intestines. Bacteria were identified using mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS
Biotyper). Overall, five classes, 27 genera and 66 species of bacteria were
identified. Genera Lactobacillus (10 species) and Bacillus (8 species) were the
most abundant. Gram-negative bacteria were represented with 16 genera, whereas
Gram-positive with 10 genera. Delftia acidovorans and Escherichia coli were the
most abundant in the digestive tract of honey bee. Resistance to a selection of
antimicrobials was assessed for the bacterial isolates from bee gut and confirmed
against all antimicrobials included in the study, with the exception of cefepime.
Lactobacillus spp., especially L. kunkeei, L. crispatus and L. acidophilus.
showed the strongest antimicrobial activity against P. larvae, the causal
pathogen of AFB. Antimicrobial activity of essential oils against isolated
bacteria and two isolates of P. larvae were assessed. Application of a broad
selection of plant essential oils indicated that Thymus vulgaris had the highest 
antimicrobial activity against P. larvae.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21186736 
PMID: 32937902 

