
1. Biosci Rep. 2020 Jan 31;40(1). pii: BSR20193405. doi: 10.1042/BSR20193405.

Characterization of C3larvinA, a novel RhoA-targeting ADP-ribosyltransferase
toxin produced by the honey bee pathogen, Paenibacillus larvae.

Turner M(1), Tremblay O(1), Heney KA(1), Lugo MR(1), Ebeling J(2), Genersch
E(2)(3), Merrill AR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Guelph, Guelph,
Ontario N1G 2W1, Canada.
(2)Institute for Bee Research, Department of Molecular Microbiology and Bee
Diseases, Hohen Neuendorf 16540, Germany.
(3)Freie Universität Berlin, Fachbereich Veterinärmedizin, Institut für
Mikrobiologie und Tierseuchen, Berlin 14163, Germany.

C3larvinA is a putative virulence factor produced by Paenibacillus larvae
enterobacterial-repetitive-intergenic-consensus (ERIC) III/IV (strain 11-8051).
Biochemical, functional and structural analyses of C3larvinA revealed that it
belongs to the C3-like mono-ADP-ribosylating toxin subgroup. Mammalian RhoA was
the target substrate for its transferase activity suggesting that it may be the
biological target of C3larvinA. The kinetic parameters of the NAD+ substrate for 
the transferase (KM = 75 ± 10 µM) and glycohydrolase (GH) (KM = 107 ± 20 µM)
reactions were typical for a C3-like bacterial toxin, including the Plx2A
virulence factor from Paenibacillus larvae ERIC I. Upon cytoplasmic expression in
yeast, C3larvinA caused a growth-defective phenotype indicating that it is an
active C3-like toxin and is cytotoxic to eukaryotic cells. The catalytic variant 
of the Q187-X-E189 motif in C3larvinA showed no cytotoxicity toward yeast
confirming that the cytotoxicity of this factor depends on its enzymatic
activity. A homology consensus model of C3larvinA with NAD+ substrate was built
on the structure of Plx2A, provided additional confirmation that C3larvinA is a
member of the C3-like mono-ADP-ribosylating toxin subgroup. A homology model of
C3larvinA with NADH and RhoA was built on the structure of the C3cer-NADH-RhoA
complex which provided further evidence that C3larvinA is a C3-like toxin that
shares an identical catalytic mechanism with C3cer from Bacillus cereus.
C3larvinA induced actin cytoskeleton reorganization in murine macrophages,
whereas in insect cells, vacuolization and bi-nucleated cells were observed.
These cellular effects are consistent with C3larvinA disrupting RhoA function by 
covalent modification that is shared among C3-like bacterial toxins.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1042/BSR20193405 
PMCID: PMC6954368
PMID: 31844879 

