
1. Pathogens. 2020 Apr 25;9(5). pii: E319. doi: 10.3390/pathogens9050319.

Paenibacillus alvei MP1 as a Producer of the Proteinaceous Compound with Activity
against Important Human Pathogens, Including Staphylococcus aureus and Listeria
monocytogenes.

Pajor M(1), Xiong ZR(2), Worobo RW(2), Szweda P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology and Biochemistry, Faculty of
Chemistry, Gdansk University of Technology, G. Narutowicza Street 11/12, 80-233
Gdansk, Poland.
(2)Department of Food Science, Cornell University, Stocking Hall, Ithaca, NY
14853-7201, USA.

An emerging need for new classes of antibiotics is, on the one hand, evident as
antimicrobial resistance continues to rise. On the other hand, the awareness of
the pros and cons of chemically synthesized compounds' extensive use leads to a
search for new metabolites in already known reservoirs. Previous research showed 
that Paenibacillus strain (P. alvei MP1) recovered from a buckwheat honey sample 
presented a wide spectrum of antimicrobial activity against both Gram-positive
and Gram-negative pathogens. Recent investigation has confirmed that P. alvei MP1
(deposited at DDBJ/ENA/GenBank under the accession WSQB00000000) produces a
proteinaceous, heat-stable compound(s) with the maximum antimicrobial production 
obtained after 18 hours of P. alvei MP1 growth in LB medium at 37 Â°C with
continuous shaking at 200 RPM. The highest activity was found in the 40% ammonium
sulfate precipitate, with high activity also remaining in the 50% and 60%
ammonium sulfate precipitates. Moderate to high antimicrobial activity that is
insensitive to proteases or heat treatment, was confirmed against pathogenic
bacteria that included L. monocytogenes FSL - X1-0001 (strain 10403S), S. aureus 
L1 - 0030 and E. coli O157: H7. Further studies, including de novo sequencing of 
peptides by mass spectrometry, are in progress.

DOI: 10.3390/pathogens9050319 
PMCID: PMC7281493
PMID: 32344843 

