
1. Int J Phytoremediation. 2020;22(10):1048-1058. doi:
10.1080/15226514.2020.1725871. Epub 2020 Feb 16.

Groundwater inhabited Bacillus and Paenibacillus strains alleviate
arsenic-induced phytotoxicity of rice plant.

Banerjee A(1), Hazra A(2), Das S(2), Sengupta C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Kalyani, Nadia, India.
(2)Agricultural and Ecological Research Unit, Indian Statistical Institute,
Kolkata, India.

Arsenic contamination in agricultural soil now imposing a major threat to crop
productivity and causing several hazardous health effects through percolation in 
food chain. Bioremediation, an efficient way of soil health restoration toward
sustainability offered by some soil-borne microorganisms, has been reported. The 
present work deals with application of two potent arsenic-tolerant bacterial
strains (Bacillus thuringiensis A01 and Paenibacillus glucanolyticus B05),
obtained from natural sources in modulating overall growth and antioxidant
defense against arsenic-treated rice plants. Between the two, former could reduce
arsenic uptake up to 56% (roots) and 85% (shoots), and the preceding one up to
31% (roots) and 65% (shoots) in a hydroponic environment. Germination percentage 
was noted to be enhanced significantly (p ≤ 0.05). Expression of oxidative stress
defensive enzymes such as superoxide dismutase, peroxidase and catalase have been
augmented at seedling stages (21 days) toward detoxification of arsenic imposed
excess ROS generation. Increment of leaf Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances 
due to arsenic exposure have been ameliorated by both the bacterial application. 
Phenolic and flavonoid mediated free radical scavenging ability of the test
plants elevated significantly (p ≤ 0.05). The present work revealed that,
selected bacterial strains can perform efficient bioremediation against arsenic
pollutant rice cultivation.

DOI: 10.1080/15226514.2020.1725871 
PMID: 32062985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

