
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Jun;143:104118. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104118. Epub 2020
Mar 6.

Microbial radiosensitization using combined treatments of essential oils and
irradiation- part B: Comparison between gamma-ray and X-ray at different dose
rates.

Shankar S(1), Follett P(2), Ayari S(3), Hossain F(1), Salmieri S(1), Lacroix
M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Research Laboratories in Sciences Applied to Food, Canadian Irradiation
Center, INRS-Institute Armand-Frappier, 531, Boulevard des Prairies, Laval,
Quebec, H7V 1B7, Canada.
(2)United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, U.S.
Pacific Basin Agricultural Research Center, 64 Nowelo Street, Hilo, HI, 96720,
USA.
(3)Research Laboratories in Sciences Applied to Food, Canadian Irradiation
Center, INRS-Institute Armand-Frappier, 531, Boulevard des Prairies, Laval,
Quebec, H7V 1B7, Canada; National Center for Nuclear Sciences and Technologies
(CNSTN), Tunis Cedex, 2020, Tunisia.
(4)Research Laboratories in Sciences Applied to Food, Canadian Irradiation
Center, INRS-Institute Armand-Frappier, 531, Boulevard des Prairies, Laval,
Quebec, H7V 1B7, Canada. Electronic address: Monique.Lacroix@iaf.inrs.ca.

Stored rice and rice products are prone to contamination by pathogenic fungi and 
bacteria such as Aspergillus niger, Bacillus cereus, and Paenibacillus
amylolyticus. Treatment with antimicrobial essential oils (EOs) and irradiation
are options to control spoilage organisms. Microbial samples with or without
fumigation with an oregano/thyme EO mixture were irradiated at 0.5, 0.75, 1.0,
1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0 and 3.5 kGy for calculation of a D10 value. The relative
sensitivity was calculated as the ratio of D10 values for the irradiation plus
oregano and thyme EO combination and irradiation alone treatments. In all cases, 
irradiation plus fumigation with the oregano and thyme EO mixture showed
increased efficacy compared with irradiation alone. The relative sensitivity of
γ-ray irradiation against A. niger was 1.22, 1.33, and 1.24 for radiation dose
rates of 10.445, 4.558, and 0.085 kGy/h, respectively, however against B. cereus 
it was 1.28, 1.45, and 1.49, and against P. amylolyticus it was 1.35, 1.33, and
1.38, for respective γ-ray irradiation dose rates. The relative sensitivity of
X-ray irradiation against A. niger, B. cereus, and P. amylolyticus was 1.63,
1.21, and 1.31, respectively, at the X-ray dose rate of 0.76 kGy/h. The results
showed that the relative sensitivity of γ-ray irradiation was higher against the 
two bacteria than the fungus, whereas X-ray showed higher sensitivity against the
fungus than the two bacteria. There was no consistent positive or negative
relationship between dose rate and relative sensitivity. The results demonstrated
the potential of an oregano and thyme EOs mixture as an antimicrobial agent and
its efficacy to increase the radiosensitization of A. niger, B. cereus, and P.
amylolyticus during γ-ray or X-ray irradiation treatments.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104118 
PMID: 32147410 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest There is no
conflict of interest.

