
1. Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek. 2020 Aug 20. doi: 10.1007/s10482-020-01461-y. [Epub
ahead of print]

Pan-genome analysis of Paenibacillus polymyxa strains reveals the mechanism of
plant growth promotion and biocontrol.

Zhou L(1), Zhang T(2), Tang S(1), Fu X(3), Yu S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Resource and Environmental Engineering, Jiangxi University of
Science and Technology, Ganzhou, 341000, Jiangxi, People's Republic of China.
(2)College of Bioscience and Engineering, Jiangxi Agricultural university,
Nanchang, 330045, Jiangxi, People's Republic of China.
(3)College of Life Science, Jiangxi Normal University, Nanchang, 330022, Jiangxi,
People's Republic of China.
(4)Faculty of Resource and Environmental Engineering, Jiangxi University of
Science and Technology, Ganzhou, 341000, Jiangxi, People's Republic of China.
yushuijing2008@163.com.

Rapid development of gene sequencing technologies has led to an exponential
increase in microbial sequencing data. Genome research of a single organism does 
not capture the changes in the characteristics of genetic information within a
species. Pan-genome analysis gives us a broader perspective to study the complete
genetic information of a species. Paenibacillus polymyxa is a Gram-positive
bacterium and an important plant growth-promoting rhizobacterium with the ability
to produce multiple antibiotics, such as fusaricidin, lantibiotic, paenilan, and 
polymyxin. Our study explores the pan-genome of 14 representative P. polymyxa
strains isolated from around the world. Heap's law model and curve fitting
confirmed an open pan-genome of P. polymyxa. The phylogenetic and collinearity
analyses reflected that the evolutionary classification of P. polymyxa strains
are not associated with geographical area and ecological niches. Few genes
related to phytohormone synthesis and phosphate solubilization were conserved;
however, the nif cluster gene associated with nitrogen fixation exists only in
some strains. This finding is indicative of nitrogen fixing ability is not stable
in P. polymyxa. Analysis of antibiotic gene clusters in P. polymyxa revealed the 
presence of these genes in both core and accessory genomes. This observation
indicates that the difference in living environment led to loss of ability to
synthesize antibiotics in some strains. The current pan-genomic analysis of P.
polymyxa will help us understand the mechanisms of biological control and plant
growth promotion. It will also promote the use of P. polymyxa in agriculture.

DOI: 10.1007/s10482-020-01461-y 
PMID: 32816227 

