
1. Environ Microbiol Rep. 2019 Dec;11(6):835-839. doi: 10.1111/1758-2229.12803. Epub
2019 Nov 14.

Interspecies interactions reduce selection for a biofilm-optimized variant in a
four-species biofilm model.

Røder HL(1), Liu W(2), Sørensen SJ(1), Madsen JS(1), Burmølle M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Microbiology, Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen,
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)School of Food and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Normal University,
Nanjing, China.

Multispecies biofilms are structured and spatially defined communities, where
interspecies interactions impact assembly and functionality. Here, we compared
the spatial organization and growth of bacterial cells in differently composed
biofilm communities over time to determine links between interspecies
interactions and selection for biofilm phenotypes of individual species. An
established model community consisting of Stenotrophomonas rhizophila,
Xanthomonas retroflexus, Microbacterium oxydans and Paenibacillus amylolyticus
was used. It was found that interspecies interactions led to varying levels of
selection for a new colony phenotype of X. retroflexus, depending on the
presence/absence of other species. When M. oxydans was absent, X. retroflexus was
not able to establish in the top layers of the biofilm, which led to selection
for a hyper-matrix forming phenotype of X. retroflexus that successfully
established in the biofilm top layers. No such phenotypic X. retroflexus variants
were identified in the presence of M. oxydans. These findings indicate that
interspecies interactions may lead to favourable localization of individual
species in a multispecies biofilm and thereby reduce selection for competitive
phenotypes.

© 2019 Society for Applied Microbiology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1758-2229.12803 
PMID: 31680421  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

