
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 May 1;150:9-15. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.02.033.
Epub 2020 Feb 6.

Improving the thermostability and activity of Paenibacillus pasadenensis
chitinase through semi-rational design.

Xu P(1), Ni ZF(1), Zong MH(1), Ou XY(1), Yang JG(2), Lou WY(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Applied Biocatalysis, School of Food Science and Engineering,
South China University of Technology, Guangzhou 510640, Guangdong, China.
(2)South China Institute of Collabrative Innovation, Xincheng Road, Songshan
Lake, Dongguan 523808, China.
(3)Laboratory of Applied Biocatalysis, School of Food Science and Engineering,
South China University of Technology, Guangzhou 510640, Guangdong, China; South
China Institute of Collabrative Innovation, Xincheng Road, Songshan Lake,
Dongguan 523808, China. Electronic address: wylou@scut.edu.cn.

Chitinase is a promising biocatalyst for chitin biotransformation in the field of
recalcitrant biomass degradation. Excellent catalytic performance is conducive to
its commercial utilization. In this work, sequence- and structure-based
semi-rational design was performed to evolve the thermostability and activity of 
a previously identified chitinase PpChi1 from Paenibacillus pasadenensis CS0611. 
After combinational mutagenesis, the mutant S244C-I319C/T259P with disulfide bond
introduction and proline substitution exhibited higher specific activity at
higher temperature, 26.3-fold in half-life value at 50 °C, and a 7.9 °C rise in
half-inactivation temperature T1/215min compared to the wild-type enzyme. The
optimal reaction temperature of the mutant was shifted from 45 °C to 52.5 °C.
Molecular dynamic simulation and structure analysis confirmed that these
improvements of the mutant were attributed to its stabilized folding form,
possibly caused by the decreased entropy of unfolding. This work gives an initial
insight into the effect of conserved proline residues in thermostable chitinases 
and proposes a feasible approach for improving chitinase thermostability to
facilitate its application in chitin hydrolysis to valuable oligosaccharides.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.02.033 
PMID: 32035157 

