
1. Acta Crystallogr D Struct Biol. 2020 May 1;76(Pt 5):447-457. doi:
10.1107/S205979832000409X. Epub 2020 Apr 23.

Structural basis of carbohydrate binding in domain C of a type I pullulanase from
Paenibacillus barengoltzii.

Huang P(1), Wu S(1), Yang S(1), Yan Q(2), Jiang Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Food Science and Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural
University, Beijing 100083, People's Republic of China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Food Bioengineering (China National Light Industry), College
of Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, People's Republic 
of China.

Pullulanase (EC 3.2.1.41) is a well known starch-debranching enzyme that
catalyzes the cleavage of α-1,6-glycosidic linkages in α-glucans such as starch
and pullulan. Crystal structures of a type I pullulanase from Paenibacillus
barengoltzii (PbPulA) and of PbPulA in complex with maltopentaose (G5),
maltohexaose (G6)/α-cyclodextrin (α-CD) and β-cyclodextrin (β-CD) were determined
in order to better understand substrate binding to this enzyme. PbPulA belongs to
glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 13 subfamily 14 and is composed of three domains 
(CBM48, A and C). Three carbohydrate-binding sites identified in PbPulA were
located in CBM48, near the active site and in domain C, respectively. The binding
site in CBM48 was specific for β-CD, while that in domain C has not been reported
for other pullulanases. The domain C binding site had higher affinity for α-CD
than for G6; a small motif (FGGEH) seemed to be one of the major determinants for
carbohydrate binding in this domain. Structure-based mutations of several
surface-exposed aromatic residues in CBM48 and domain C had a debilitating effect
on the activity of the enzyme. These results suggest that both CBM48 and domain C
play a role in binding substrates. The crystal forms described contribute to the 
understanding of pullulanase domain-carbohydrate interactions.

DOI: 10.1107/S205979832000409X 
PMID: 32355041 

