
1. Bioelectrochemistry. 2020 Dec;136:107632. doi: 10.1016/j.bioelechem.2020.107632. 
Epub 2020 Aug 8.

Electroactivity of the Gram-positive bacterium Paenibacillus dendritiformis
MA-72.

Hubenova Y(1), Hubenova E(2), Mitov M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrocatalysis and Electrocrystallization, Institute of
Electrochemistry and Energy Systems "Acad. E. Budevski" - Bulgarian Academy of
Sciences, Sofia, Bulgaria; Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology, Plovdiv
University "Paisii Hilendarski", Plovdiv, Bulgaria. Electronic address:
jolinahubenova@yahoo.com.
(2)Medical Faculty of the Rhein Friedrich Wilhelm University of Bonn, Bonn,
Germany.
(3)Innovative Center for Eco Energy Technologies, South-West University "Neofit
Rilski", Blagoevgrad, Bulgaria.

Whilst most of the microorganisms recognized as exoelectrogens are Gram-negative 
bacteria, the electrogenicity of Gram-positive bacteria has not been sufficiently
explored. In this study, the putative electroactivity of the Gram-positive
Paenibacillus dendritiformis MA-72 strain, isolated from the anodic biofilm of
long-term operated Sediment Microbial Fuel Cell (SMFC), has been investigated.
SEM observations show that under polarization conditions P. dendritiformis forms 
a dense biofilm on carbon felt electrodes. A current density, reaching 5 mA m-2, 
has been obtained at a prolonged applied potential of -0.195 V (vs. SHE), which
represents 35% of the value achieved with the SMFC. The voltammetric studies
confirm that the observed Faradaic current is associated with the electrochemical
activity of the bacterial biofilm and not with a soluble redox mediator. The
results suggest that a direct electron transfer takes place through the
conductive extracellular polymer matrix via pili/nanowires and multiple
cytochromes. All these findings demonstrate for the first time that the
Gram-positive Paenibacillus dendritiformis MA-72 is a new exoelectrogenic
bacterial strain.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioelechem.2020.107632 
PMID: 32795939 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

