
1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Jul 17;746:140968. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.140968. 
[Epub ahead of print]

Biodegradation of the fungicide Pyraclostrobin by bacteria from orange
cultivation plots.

Birolli WG(1), da Silva BF(2), Rodrigues-Filho E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Micromolecular Biochemistry of Microorganisms (LaBioMMi), Center
for Exact Sciences and Technology, Federal University of São Carlos, Via
Washington Luiz, km 235, 13.565-905, P.O. Box 676, São Carlos, SP, Brazil.
Electronic address: willianbirolli@gmail.com.
(2)Institute of Chemistry, Department of Analytical Chemistry, São Paulo State
University (UNESP), 14800-060, P.O. Box 355, Araraquara, SP, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Micromolecular Biochemistry of Microorganisms (LaBioMMi), Center
for Exact Sciences and Technology, Federal University of São Carlos, Via
Washington Luiz, km 235, 13.565-905, P.O. Box 676, São Carlos, SP, Brazil.
Electronic address: edinho@pq.cnpq.br.

The pesticides belonging the strobilurin group are among the most common
contaminants in the environment. In this work, biodegradation studies of the
strobilurin fungicide Pyraclostrobin by bacteria from orange cultivation plots
were performed aiming to contribute with the development of a bioremediation
method. Experiments were performed in triplicate with validated methods, and
optimization was performed by Central Composite Design and Response Surface
Methodology. The strains were evaluated in liquid nutrient medium containing
100 mg L-1 of Pyraclostrobin, and decreased concentrations of 61.5 to
100.5 mg L-1 were determined after 5 days at 37 °C and 130 rpm, showing the
importance of strain selection. When the five most efficient strains (Bacillus
sp. CSA-13, Paenibacillus alvei CBMAI2221, Bacillus sp. CBMAI2222, Bacillus
safensis CBMAI2220 and Bacillus aryabhattai CBMAI2223) were used in consortia,
synergistic and antagonistic effects were observed accordingly to the employed
combination of bacteria, resulting in 64.2 ± 3.9 to 95.4 ± 4.9 mg L-1 residual
Pyraclostrobin. In addition, the formation of 1-(4-chlorophenyl)-1H-pyrazol-3-ol 
was quantified (0.59-0.01 mg L-1), and a new biodegradation pathway was proposed 
with 15 identified metabolites. Experiments were also performed in soil under
controlled conditions (30 °C, 0-28 days, 100 mg kg-1 pesticide), and the native
microbiome reduced the pesticide concentration to 70.4 ± 2.3 mg L-1, whereas the 
inoculation of an efficient bacterial consortium promoted clearly better results,
57.2 ± 3.9 mg L-1 residual Pyraclostrobin. This suggests that the introduction of
these strains in soil in a bioaugmentation process increases decontamination.
However, the native microbiome is important for a more efficient bioremediation.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.140968 
PMID: 32763599 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the study reported in this
paper.

