
1. Microbiologyopen. 2020 Mar;9(3):e980. doi: 10.1002/mbo3.980. Epub 2019 Dec 23.

Transglycosylating β-d-galactosidase and α-l-fucosidase from Paenibacillus sp.
3179 from a hot spring in East Greenland.

Thøgersen MS(1), Christensen SJ(1), Jepsen M(1), Pedersen LH(2), Stougaard P(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Copenhagen, Frederiksberg C, Denmark.
(2)Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark.

Thermal springs are excellent locations for discovery of thermostable
microorganisms and enzymes. In this study, we identify a novel thermotolerant
bacterial strain related to Paenibacillus dendritiformis, denoted Paenibacillus
sp. 3179, which was isolated from a thermal spring in East Greenland. A
functional expression library of the strain was constructed, and the library
screened for β-d-galactosidase and α-l-fucosidase activities on chromogenic
substrates. This identified two genes encoding a β-d-galactosidase and an
α-l-fucosidase, respectively. The enzymes were recombinantly expressed, purified,
and characterized using oNPG (2-nitrophenyl-β-d-galactopyranoside) and pNP-fucose
(4-nitrophenyl-α-l-fucopyranoside), respectively. The enzymes were shown to have 
optimal activity at 50°C and pH 7-8, and they were able to hydrolyze as well as
transglycosylate natural carbohydrates. The transglycosylation activities were
investigated using TLC and HPLC, and the β-d-galactosidase was shown to produce
the galactooligosaccharides (GOS) 6'-O-galactosyllactose and
3'-O-galactosyllactose using lactose as substrate, whereas the α-l-fucosidase was
able to transfer the fucose moiety from pNP-fuc to lactose, thereby forming
2'-O-fucosyllactose. Since enzymes that are able to transglycosylate
carbohydrates at elevated temperature are desirable in many industrial processes,
including food and dairy production, we foresee the potential use of enzymes from
Paenibacillus sp. 3179 in the production of, for example, instant formula.

© 2019 The Authors. MicrobiologyOpen published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mbo3.980 
PMCID: PMC7066462
PMID: 31868312 

