
1. Biomed Res Int. 2020 Feb 27;2020:8650957. doi: 10.1155/2020/8650957. eCollection 
2020.

Isolation and Characterization of Plant Growth-Promoting Endophytic Bacteria
Paenibacillus polymyxa SK1 from Lilium lancifolium.

Khan MS(1)(2), Gao J(1), Chen X(1), Zhang M(1), Yang F(1), Du Y(1), Moe TS(1)(3),
Munir I(2), Xue J(1), Zhang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Agro-Biotechnology Research Center, Beijing Academy of Agriculture and
Forestry Sciences, Beijing 100097, China.
(2)Genomics and Bioinformatics Division, Institute of Biotechnology and Genetic
Engineering (IBGE), The University of Agriculture, Peshawar 25000, Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.
(3)Pharmaceutical Research Laboratory, Biotechnology Research Department,
Ministry of Education, Mandalay Division, Kyaukse 05151, Myanmar.

Paenibacillus polymyxa is a plant growth-promoting rhizobacterium that has
immense potential to be used as an environmentally friendly replacement of
chemical fertilizers and pesticides. In the present study, Paenibacillus polymyxa
SK1 was isolated from bulbs of Lilium lancifolium. The isolated endophytic strain
showed antifungal activities against important plant pathogens like
Botryosphaeria dothidea, Fusarium oxysporum, Botrytis cinerea, and Fusarium
fujikuroi. The highest percentage of growth inhibition, i.e., 66.67 ± 2.23%, was 
observed for SK1 against Botryosphaeria dothidea followed by 61.19 ± 3.12%,
60.71 ± 3.53%, and 55.54 ± 2.89% against Botrytis cinerea, Fusarium fujikuroi,
and Fusarium oxysporum, respectively. The metabolite profiling of ethyl acetate
fraction was assessed through the UHPLC-LTQ-IT-MS/MS analysis, and putative
identification was done with the aid of the GNPS molecular networking workflow. A
total of 29 compounds were putatively identified which included dipeptides,
tripeptides, cyclopeptides (cyclo-(Leu-Leu), cyclo(Pro-Phe)), 2-heptyl-3-hydroxy 
4-quinolone, 6-oxocativic acid, anhydrobrazilic acid,
1-(5-methoxy-1H-indol-3-yl)-2-piperidin-1-ylethane-1,2-dione, octadecenoic acid, 
pyochelin, 15-hydroxy-5Z,8Z,11Z, 13E-eicosatetraenoic acid,
(Z)-7-[(2R,3S)-3-[(2Z,5E)-Undeca-2,5-dienyl]oxiran-2-yl]hept-5-enoic acid,
arginylasparagine, cholic acid, sphinganine, elaidic acid, gossypin, L-carnosine,
tetrodotoxin, and ursodiol. The high antifungal activity of SK1 might be
attributed to the presence of these bioactive compounds. The isolated strain SK1 
showed plant growth-promoting traits such as the production of organic acids, ACC
deaminase, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), siderophores, nitrogen fixation, and
phosphate solubilization. IAA production was strongly correlated with the
application of exogenous tryptophan concentrations in the medium. Furthermore,
inoculation of SK1 enhanced plant growth of two Lilium varieties, Tresor and
White Heaven, under greenhouse condition. In the light of these findings, the P. 
polymyxa SK1 may be utilized as a source of plant growth promotion and disease
control in sustainable agriculture.

Copyright © 2020 Mohammad Sayyar Khan et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/8650957 
PMCID: PMC7064867
PMID: 32190683 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest.

