
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 May 5;86(10). pii: e03012-19. doi:
10.1128/AEM.03012-19. Print 2020 May 5.

The Role of Fnr Paralogs in Controlling Anaerobic Metabolism in the Diazotroph
Paenibacillus polymyxa WLY78.

Shi H(1), Li Y(1), Hao T(1), Liu X(1), Zhao X(1), Chen S(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Agrobiotechnology, College of Biological Sciences and
Key Laboratory of Soil Microbiology of Agriculture Ministry, China Agricultural
University, Beijing, People's Republic of China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Agrobiotechnology, College of Biological Sciences and
Key Laboratory of Soil Microbiology of Agriculture Ministry, China Agricultural
University, Beijing, People's Republic of China chensf@cau.edu.cn.

Fnr is a transcriptional regulator that controls the expression of a variety of
genes in response to oxygen limitation in bacteria. Genome sequencing revealed
four genes (fnr1, fnr3, fnr5, and fnr7) coding for Fnr proteins in Paenibacillus 
polymyxa WLY78. Fnr1 and Fnr3 showed more similarity to each other than to Fnr5
and Fnr7. Also, Fnr1 and Fnr3 exhibited high similarity with Bacillus cereus Fnr 
and Bacillus subtilis Fnr in sequence and structures. Both the aerobically
purified His-tagged Fnr1 and His-tagged Fnr3 in Escherichia coli could bind to
the specific DNA promoter. Deletion analysis showed that the four fnr genes,
especially fnr1 and fnr3, have significant impacts on growth and nitrogenase
activity. Single deletion of fnr1 or fnr3 led to a 50% reduction in nitrogenase
activity, and double deletion of fnr1 and fnr3 resulted to a 90% reduction in
activity. Genome-wide transcription analysis showed that Fnr1 and Fnr3 indirectly
activated expression of nif (nitrogen fixation) genes and Fe transport genes
under anaerobic conditions. Fnr1 and Fnr3 inhibited expression of the genes
involved in the aerobic respiratory chain and activated expression of genes
responsible for anaerobic electron acceptor genes.IMPORTANCE The members of the
nitrogen-fixing Paenibacillus spp. have great potential to be used as a bacterial
fertilizer in agriculture. However, the functions of the fnr gene(s) in nitrogen 
fixation and other metabolisms in Paenibacillus spp. are not known. Here, we
found that in P. polymyxa WLY78, Fnr1 and Fnr3 were responsible for regulation of
numerous genes in response to changes in oxygen levels, but Fnr5 and Fnr7
exhibited little effect. Fnr1 and Fnr3 indirectly or directly regulated many
types of important metabolism, such as nitrogen fixation, Fe uptake, respiration,
and electron transport. This study not only reveals the function of the fnr genes
of P. polymyxa WLY78 in nitrogen fixation and other metabolisms but also will
provide insight into the evolution and regulatory mechanisms of fnr in
Paenibacillus.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.03012-19 
PMCID: PMC7205490 [Available on 2020-11-05]
PMID: 32198173 

