
1. Research (Wash D C). 2020 May 8;2020:3672120. doi: 10.34133/2020/3672120.
eCollection 2020.

Bioinspired Adhesive and Antibacterial Microneedles for Versatile Transdermal
Drug Delivery.

Zhang X(1)(2), Chen G(1), Yu Y(1)(2), Sun L(1)(2), Zhao Y(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, The Affiliated Drum Tower Hospital 
of Nanjing University Medical School, Nanjing 210008, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Bioelectronics, School of Biological Science and
Medical Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, China.

Microneedles have attracted increasing interest among various medical fields due 
to their painless, noninvasive, and efficient way of drug delivery. However,
practical applications of these microneedles in different epidermal locations and
environments are still restricted by their low adhesion and poor antimicrobial
activity. Here, inspired by the antibacterial strategy of Paenibacillus polymyxa 
and adhesion mechanisms of mussel byssi and octopus tentacles, we develop
hierarchical microneedles with multifunctional adhesive and antibacterial
abilities. With polydopamine hydrogel as the microneedle base and a loop of
suction-cup-structured concave chambers encircling each microneedle, the
generated microneedles can fit the skin well; keep strong adhesion in dry, moist,
and wet environments; and realize self-repair after being split into two parts.
Besides, as polymyxin is loaded into both the hydrogel tips and the polydopamine 
base, the microneedles are endowed with excellent ability to resist common
bacteria during storage and usage. We have demonstrated that these microneedles
not only showed excellent adhesion when applied to knuckles and ideal
antibacterial activity but also performed well in drug-sustained release and
treatment for the osteoarthritis rat model. These results indicate that
bioinspired multifunctional microneedles will break through the limitation of
traditional methods and be ideal candidates for versatile transdermal drug
delivery systems.

Copyright Â© 2020 Xiaoxuan Zhang et al.

DOI: 10.34133/2020/3672120 
PMCID: PMC7231261
PMID: 32490376 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this article.

