
1. BMC Microbiol. 2020 Apr 6;20(1):77. doi: 10.1186/s12866-020-01772-0.

Bioinformatic prospecting and phylogenetic analysis reveals 94 undescribed
circular bacteriocins and key motifs.

Vezina B(1), Rehm BHA(1), Smith AT(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cell Factories and Biopolymers, Griffith Institute for Drug
Discovery, Griffith University, Nathan, Australia.
(2)Centre for Cell Factories and Biopolymers, Griffith Institute for Drug
Discovery, Griffith University, Nathan, Australia. andrew.smith@griffith.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Circular bacteriocins are antimicrobial peptides produced by bacteria
with a N and C termini ligation. They have desirable properties such as activity 
at low concentrations along with thermal, pH and proteolytic resistance. There
are twenty experimentally confirmed circular bacteriocins as part of bacteriocin 
gene clusters, with transport, membrane and immunity proteins. Traditionally,
novel antimicrobials are found by testing large numbers of isolates against
indicator strains, with no promise of corresponding novel sequence.
RESULTS: Through bioprospecting publicly available sequence databases, we
identified ninety-nine circular bacteriocins across a variety of bacteria
bringing the total to 119. They were grouped into two families within class I
modified bacteriocins (i and ii) and further divided into subfamilies based on
similarity to experimentally confirmed circular bacteriocins. Within subfamilies,
sequences overwhelmingly shared similar characteristics such as sequence length, 
presence of a polybasic region, conserved locations of aromatic residues, C and N
termini, gene clusters similarity, translational coupling and hydrophobicity
profiles. At least ninety were predicted to be putatively functional based on
gene clusters. Furthermore, bacteriocins identified from Enterococcus,
Staphylococcus and Streptococcus species may have activity against clinically
relevant strains, due to the presence of putative immunity genes required for
expression in a toxin-antitoxin system. Some strains such as Paenibacillus larvae
subsp. pulvifaciens SAG 10367 contained multiple circular bacteriocin gene
clusters from different subfamilies, while some strains such as Bacillus cereus
BCE-01 contained clusters with multiple circular bacteriocin structural genes.
CONCLUSIONS: Sequence analysis provided rapid insight into identification of
novel, putative circular bacteriocins, as well as conserved genes likely
essential for circularisation. This represents an expanded library of putative
antimicrobial proteins which are potentially active against human, plant and
animal pathogens.

DOI: 10.1186/s12866-020-01772-0 
PMCID: PMC7132975
PMID: 32252629 

