
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 Apr 17;86(9). pii: e00196-20. doi:
10.1128/AEM.00196-20. Print 2020 Apr 17.

Inactivation of the Levansucrase Gene in Paenibacillus polymyxa DSM 365
Diminishes Exopolysaccharide Biosynthesis during 2,3-Butanediol Fermentation.

Okonkwo CC(1), Ujor V(2), Cornish K(3)(4), Ezeji TC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Sciences, Ohio State Agricultural Research and
Development Center (OARDC), The Ohio State University, Wooster, Ohio, USA.
(2)Bioenergy and Water Treatment Management Program, Agricultural Technical
Institute, The Ohio State University, Wooster, Ohio, USA.
(3)Department of Food, Agricultural and Biological Engineering, Ohio State
Agricultural Research and Development Center (OARDC), The Ohio State University, 
Wooster, Ohio, USA.
(4)Department of Horticulture and Crop Sciences, Ohio State Agricultural Research
and Development Center (OARDC), The Ohio State University, Wooster, Ohio, USA.
(5)Department of Animal Sciences, Ohio State Agricultural Research and
Development Center (OARDC), The Ohio State University, Wooster, Ohio, USA
Ezeji.1@osu.edu.

The formation of exopolysaccharides (EPSs) during 2,3-butanediol (2,3-BD)
fermentation by Paenibacillus polymyxa increases medium viscosity, which in turn 
presents considerable technical and economic challenges to 2,3-BD downstream
processing. To eliminate EPS production during 2,3-BD fermentation, we used
homologous recombination to disable the EPS biosynthetic pathway in P. polymyxa
The gene which encodes levansucrase, the major enzyme responsible for EPS
biosynthesis in P. polymyxa, was successfully disrupted. The P. polymyxa
levansucrase null mutant produced 2.5 ± 0.1 and 1.2 ± 0.2 g/liter EPS on sucrose 
and glucose, respectively, whereas the wild type produced 21.7 ± 2.5 and
3.1 ± 0.0 g/liter EPS on the same substrates, respectively. These levels of EPS
translate to 8.7- and 2.6-fold decreases in EPS formation by the levansucrase
null mutant on sucrose and glucose, respectively, relative to that by the wild
type, with no significant reduction in 2,3-BD production. Inactivation of EPS
biosynthesis led to a considerable increase in growth. On glucose and sucrose,
the cell biomass of the levansucrase null mutant (8.1 ± 0.8 and 6.5 ± 0.3
g/liter, respectively) increased 1.4-fold compared to that of the wild type
(6.0 ± 0.1 and 4.6 ± 0.3 g/liter, respectively) grown on the same substrates.
Evaluation of the genetic stability of the levansucrase null mutant showed that
it remained genetically stable over fifty generations, with no observable
decrease in growth or 2,3-BD formation, with or without antibiotic
supplementation. Hence, the P. polymyxa levansucrase null mutant has potential
for use as an industrial biocatalyst for a cost-effective large-scale 2,3-BD
fermentation process devoid of EPS-related challenges.IMPORTANCE Given the
current barrage of attention and research investments toward the production of
next-generation fuels and chemicals, of which 2,3-butanediol (2,3-BD) produced by
nonpathogenic Paenibacillus species is perhaps one of the most vigorously
pursued, tools for engineering Paenibacillus species are intensely sought after. 
Exopolysaccharide (EPS) production during 2,3-BD fermentation constitutes a
problem during downstream processing. Specifically, EPS negatively impacts 2,3-BD
separation from the fermentation broth, thereby increasing the overall cost of
2,3-BD production. The results presented here demonstrate that inactivation of
the levansucrase gene in P. polymyxa leads to diminished EPS accumulation.
Additionally, a new method for an EPS assay and a simple protocol employing
protoplasts for enhanced transformation of P. polymyxa were developed. Overall,
although our study shows that levan is not the only EPS produced by P. polymyxa, 
it represents a significant first step toward developing cost-effective 2,3-BD
fermentation devoid of EPS-associated complications during downstream processing.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00196-20 
PMCID: PMC7170477 [Available on 2020-10-17]
PMID: 32144108 

