
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Aug 21. pii: S0141-8130(20)34238-0. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.08.147. [Epub ahead of print]

Functional genomics assessment of lytic polysaccharide mono-oxygenase with
glycoside hydrolases in Paenibacillus dendritiformis CRN18.

Srivastava S(1), Dafale NA(2), Purohit HJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Environmental Biotechnology & Genomics Division, CSIR-National Environmental
Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Nagpur 440 020, India; AcSIR-Academy for 
Scientific and Innovative Research, Ghaziabad 201 002, India.
(2)Environmental Biotechnology & Genomics Division, CSIR-National Environmental
Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Nagpur 440 020, India; AcSIR-Academy for 
Scientific and Innovative Research, Ghaziabad 201 002, India. Electronic address:
na_dafale@neeri.res.in.
(3)Environmental Biotechnology & Genomics Division, CSIR-National Environmental
Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Nagpur 440 020, India.

Recently discovered Lytic Polysaccharide Mono-Oxygenase (LPMO) enhances the
enzymatic deconstruction of complex polysaccharide by oxidation. The present
study demonstrates the agricultural waste hydrolyzing capabilities of
Paenibacillus dendritiformis CRN18, which exhibits the enzyme activity of
exo-glucanase, β-glucosidase, β-glucuronidase, endo-1, 4 β-xylanases,
arabinosidase, and α-galactosidase as 0.1 U/ml, 0.3 U/ml, 0.09 U/ml, 0.1 U/ml,
0.05 U/ml, and 0.41 U/ml, respectively. The genome analysis of strain reveals the
presence of four LPMO genes, along with lignocellulolytic genes. The gene
structure of LPMO and its phylogenetic analysis shows the evolutionary
relatedness with the Bacillus LPMO gene. Gene position of LPMOs in the genome of 
strains shows the close association of two LPMOs with chitin active enzyme GH18, 
and the other two are associated with hemicellulases (GH39, GH23).
Protein-protein interaction and gene networking of LPMO sheds light on the
co-occurrence, neighborhood, and interaction of LPMOs with chitinase and xylanase
enzymes. Structural prediction of LPMOs unravels the information of the LPMO's
binding site. Although the LPMO has been explored for its oxidative mechanism, a 
little light has been shed on its gene structure. This study provides insights
into the LPMO gene structure in P. dendritiformis CRN18 and its potential in
lignocellulose hydrolysis.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.08.147 
PMID: 32835796 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no financial or commercial conflict of interest.

