
1. Metab Eng. 2020 Sep;61:381-388. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2020.07.009. Epub 2020 Aug
7.

Engineering of the 2,3-butanediol pathway of Paenibacillus polymyxa DSM 365.

Schilling C(1), Ciccone R(1), Sieber V(2), Schmid J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Chair of Chemistry of Biogenic Resources, Technical University of Munich,
Campus for Biotechnology and Sustainability, Schulgasse 16, 94315, Straubing,
Germany.
(2)Chair of Chemistry of Biogenic Resources, Technical University of Munich,
Campus for Biotechnology and Sustainability, Schulgasse 16, 94315, Straubing,
Germany; Fraunhofer IGB, Straubing Branch BioCat, Schulgasse 23, 94315,
Straubing, Germany; TUM Catalysis Research Center, Ernst-Otto-Fischer-Straße1,
85748, Garching, Germany; The University of Queensland, School of Chemistry and
Molecular Biosciences, 68 Copper Road, St. Lucia, 4072, Australia.
(3)Chair of Chemistry of Biogenic Resources, Technical University of Munich,
Campus for Biotechnology and Sustainability, Schulgasse 16, 94315, Straubing,
Germany; Department of Biotechnology and Food Science, Norwegian University of
Science and Technology, 7034, Trondheim, Norway. Electronic address:
jochen.schmid@ntnu.no.

Paenibacillus polymyxa is a Gram-positive, non-pathogenic soil bacterium that has
been extensively investigated for the production of R-,R-2,3-butanediol in
exceptionally high enantiomeric purity. Rational metabolic engineering efforts to
increase productivity and product titers were restricted due to limited genetic
accessibility of the organism up to now. By use of CRISPR-Cas9 mediated genome
editing, six metabolic mutant variants were generated and compared in batch
fermentations for the first time. Downstream processing was facilitated by
completely eliminating exopolysaccharide formation through the combined knockout 
of the sacB gene and the clu1 region, encoding for the underlying enzymatic
machinery of levan and paenan synthesis. Spore formation was inhibited by
deletion of spoIIE, thereby disrupting the sporulation cascade of P. polymyxa.
Optimization of the carbon flux towards 2,3-butanediol was achieved by deletion
of the lactate dehydrogenase ldh1 and decoupling of the butanediol dehydrogenase 
from its natural regulation via constitutive episomal expression. The improved
strain showed 45 % increased productivity, reaching a final concentration of
43.8 g L-1 butanediol. A yield of 0.43 g g-1 glucose was achieved, accounting for
86 % of the theoretical maximum.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2020.07.009 
PMID: 32771627 

