
1. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2020 Sep 28. doi: 10.1111/lam.13399. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of feeding a Lactobacillus plantarum JL01 diet on cecal bacteria and
metabolites of weaned piglets.

Geng T(1)(2)(3), Su S(1)(2)(3), Sun K(1)(2)(3), Zhao L(1)(2)(3), Zhao Y(1)(2)(3),
Bao N(1)(2)(3), Pan L(1)(2)(3), Sun H(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Production, Product Quality and Security, Ministry of
Education.
(2)Jilin Provincial key Laboratory of animal nutrition and feed science.
(3)College of Animal Science and Technology, Jilin Agricultural University,
No.2888 Xincheng Street, Changchun, 130118, China.

Currently, knowledge is limited concerning the impact of a Lactobacillus
plantarum JL01 diet for weaned piglets on cecal bacteria and metabolite profiles.
In our experiments, 24 weaned piglets were randomly divided into two groups; each
piglet in the treatment groups (Cec-Lac) was fed a basic diet and administered 10
ml of Lactobacillus plantarum JL01 (1.0Ã—109 CFU/mL) every day. The control group 
(Cec-Con) was fed a basic diet. After feeding for 28 days, we analyzed the
parameters of the cecal digesta of weaned piglets. We used 16S rDNA gene
sequencing and mass spectrometry (MS)-based metabolomics techniques to
investigate the effect of a Lactobacillus plantarum JL01 diet on intestinal
microbial composition and its metabolite profiles in the cecum contents of weaned
piglets. The results showed that the richness estimators (ACE and Chao indices)
in the cecal bacteria increased in the Cec-Lac group. Prevotella_2 and
Desulfovibrio decreased significantly, while Pantoea and Rectale_group increased 
in the cecum of weaned piglets in the Cec-Lac group. Furthermore, Pearson's
correlation analysis revealed that the genus Rectale_group was positively
correlated with indole-3-acetic acid (P < 0.05), and the genus Pantoea had the
same correlation with 1-palmitoyl lysophosphatidic acid. The metabolomics
analysis revealed that the Lactobacillus plantarum JL01 diet supplementation had 
significant effects on tryptophan metabolism and fat digestion and absorption.
The results indicated that the Lactobacillus plantarum JL01 dietary
supplementation not only altered the microbial composition but also mediated
tryptophan metabolism and fat digestion and absorption in the cecum, factors that
may further affect the health of the host.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.13399 
PMID: 32989746 

