
1. Trop Life Sci Res. 2020 Apr;31(1):57-68. doi: 10.21315/tlsr2020.31.1.4. Epub 2020
Apr 7.

Identification and Characterisation of Endophytic Bacteria from Coconut (Cocos
nucifera) Tissue Culture.

Salo EN(1), Novero A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and Environmental Studies, College of
Science and Mathematics, University of the Philippines Mindanao, Tugbok District,
Davao City 8022, Philippines.

The coconut is an important economic crop in the Philippines which currently
ranks as the world's second largest producer. This study characterised and
identified endophytes from coconut tissue culture in order to gain an initial
understanding of their potential uses as sources of bioproducts. The isolates
were evaluated using morphological, biochemical and molecular methods. Gram
staining results revealed that four out of five bacteria isolated were Gram
positive. Isolate CEB 1 fermented all three sugars in the Triple Sugar Iron Test 
while the other four did not. 16S rDNA gene fragments were amplified from genomic
DNA using the universal primers 16F27 and 16R1542. The 16S rDNA sequence were
found to be homologous to Bacillus subtilis and Pantoea dispersa. Phylogenetic
analyses showed significant clustering of bacterial isolates together with
archived DNA of B. subtilis and P. dispersa. All isolated bacteria matched the
characteristics of their molecular homologies. Isolate CEB 5, identified as B.
subtilis, produced red pigments which are possibly pulcherrimin. Literature
reports that pulcherrimin possesses antimicrobial activity against yeast species,
microscopic fungi, and postharvest pathogens. P. dispera, on the other hand, has 
been reported to convert insoluble phosphorus into soluble form to enable plants 
to take up more phosphorus. Determination of the bioactivities of endophytes
reported in this study may enable the discovery of novel bioproducts.

Â© Penerbit Universiti Sains Malaysia, 2020.

DOI: 10.21315/tlsr2020.31.1.4 
PMCID: PMC7485530
PMID: 32963711 

