
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Aug 31;21(17). pii: E6307. doi: 10.3390/ijms21176307.

Molecular Network and Culture Media Variation Reveal a Complex Metabolic Profile 
in Pantoea cf. eucrina D2 Associated with an Acidified Marine Sponge.

Vitale GA(1), Sciarretta M(2), Cassiano C(2), Buonocore C(1), Festa C(2),
Mazzella V(3), Núñez Pons L(3), D'Auria MV(2), de Pascale D(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, National Research Council, 80131
Naples, Italy.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, University of Naples "Federico II", 80131 Naples,
Italy.
(3)Department of Integrated Marine Ecology (EMI), Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn,
Villa Comunale, 80125 Naples, Italy.
(4)Department of Marine Biotechnology, Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn, Villa
Comunale, 80125 Naples, Italy.

The Gram-negative Pantoea eucrina D2 was isolated from the marine sponge
Chondrosia reniformis. Sponges were collected in a shallow volcanic vents system 
in Ischia island (South Italy), influenced by CO2 emissions and lowered pH. The
chemical diversity of the secondary metabolites produced by this strain, under
different culture conditions, was explored by a combined approach including
molecular networking, pure compound isolation and NMR spectroscopy. The
metabolome of Pantoea cf. eucrina D2 yielded a very complex molecular network,
allowing the annotation of several metabolites, among them two biosurfactant
clusters: lipoamino acids and surfactins. The production of each class of
metabolites was highly dependent on the culture conditions, in particular, the
production of unusual surfactins derivatives was reported for the first time from
this genus; interestingly the production of these metabolites only arises by
utilizing inorganic nitrogen as a sole nitrogen source. Major components of the
extract obtained under standard medium culture conditions were isolated and
identified as N-lipoamino acids by a combination of 1D and 2D NMR spectroscopy
and HRESI-MS analysis. Assessment of the antimicrobial activity of the pure
compounds towards some human pathogens, indicated a moderate activity of leucine 
containing N-lipoamino acids towards Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus
epidermidis and a clinical isolate of the emerging food pathogen Listeria
monocytogenes.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21176307 
PMCID: PMC7504411
PMID: 32878176 

