
1. BMC Microbiol. 2020 Sep 21;20(1):291. doi: 10.1186/s12866-020-01977-3.

Root-associated endophytic bacterial community composition and structure of three
medicinal licorices and their changes with the growing year.

Dang H(1), Zhang T(1), Li G(1), Mu Y(2), Lv X(1), Wang Z(1), Zhuang L(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Key Laboratory of Xinjiang Phytomedicine Resource
Utilization, Ministry of Education, Shihezi University, Shihezi, 832003,
Xinjiang, China.
(2)1300 UNIVERSITY Ave, Madison, WI, 53706, USA.
(3)College of Life Sciences, Key Laboratory of Xinjiang Phytomedicine Resource
Utilization, Ministry of Education, Shihezi University, Shihezi, 832003,
Xinjiang, China. 3033573705@qq.com.

BACKGROUND: The dried roots and rhizomes of medicinal licorices are widely used
worldwide as a traditional medicinal herb, which are mainly attributed to a
variety of bioactive compounds that can be extracted from licorice root.
Endophytes and plants form a symbiotic relationship, which is an important source
of host secondary metabolites.
RESULTS: In this study, we used high-throughput sequencing technology and
high-performance liquid chromatography to explore the composition and structure
of the endophytic bacterial community and the content of bioactive compounds
(glycyrrhizic acid, liquiritin and total flavonoids) in different species of
medicinal licorices (Glycyrrhiza uralensis, Glycyrrhiza glabra, and Glycyrrhiza
inflata) and in different planting years (1-3 years). Our results showed that the
contents of the bioactive compounds in the roots of medicinal licorices were not 
affected by the species, but were significantly affected by the main effect
growing year (1-3) (P < 0.05), and with a trend of stable increase in the
contents observed with each growing year. In 27 samples, a total of 1,979,531
effective sequences were obtained after quality control, and 2432 effective
operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were obtained at 97% identity. The phylum
Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes, and the genera
unified-Rhizobiaceae, Pseudomonas, Novosphingobium, and Pantoea were
significantly dominant in the 27 samples. Distance-based redundancy analysis
(db-RDA) showed that the content of total flavonoids explained the differences in
composition and distribution of endophytic bacterial communities in roots of
cultivated medicinal liquorices to the greatest extent. Total soil salt was the
most important factor that significantly affected the endophytic bacterial
community in soil factors, followed by ammonium nitrogen and nitrate nitrogen.
Among the leaf nutrition factors, leaf water content had the most significant
effect on the endophytic bacterial community, followed by total phosphorus and
total potassium.
CONCLUSIONS: This study not only provides information on the composition and
distribution of endophytic bacteria in the roots of medicinal licorices, but also
reveals the influence of abiotic factors on the community of endophytic bacteria 
and bioactive compounds, which provides a reference for improving the quality of 
licorice.

DOI: 10.1186/s12866-020-01977-3 
PMCID: PMC7507641
PMID: 32957914 

