
1. Microbiol Res. 2020 Sep 28;242:126600. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126600. [Epub
ahead of print]

Multifunctional potential of endophytic bacteria from Anacardium othonianum
Rizzini in promoting in vitro and ex vitro plant growth.

Faria PSA(1), Marques VO(1), Selari PJRG(2), Martins PF(1), Silva FG(1), Sales
JF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Federal Institute of Education, Science and Technology Goiano, (Instituto
Federal de Instituto Federal de Educação, Ciência e Tecnologia Goiano - IF
Goiano), Rio Verde, Goiás, Brazil.
(2)Federal Institute of Education, Science and Technology Goiano, (Instituto
Federal de Educação, Ciência e Tecnologia Goiano - IF Goiano), Ceres, Goiás,
Brazil. Electronic address: priscila.goncalves@ifgoiano.edu.br.

Anacardium othonianum Rizzini, a cashew tree native to the Brazilian Cerrado, is 
economically important due to its applications in the food, chemical and
pharmaceutical industries. However, A. othonianum yields a crop with low
productivity due to a number of factors, such as nutritionally poor soils,
drought and losses due to pests and diseases. Brazil is one of the nine largest
cashew nut producers worldwide, and sustainable technologies are needed to
increase the productivity of this crop. In this context, the use of endophytic
microorganisms could promote plant growth and provide protection against
phytopathogens. In this study, the isolation of the root endophytic community of 
A. othonianum led to the characterization of 22 distinct bacterial strains with
multifunctional traits for plant growth promotion. The results of in vitro assays
to assess auxin synthesis, phosphate solubilization, phosphatase and siderophore 
production and biocontrol against Fusarium oxysporum led to the selection of
Acinetobacter lwoffii Bac109 and Pantoea agglomerans Bac131 as the most promising
strains. The reinoculation of the Bac109 and Bac131 strains onto A. othonianum
seeds showed that the treatment containing a mixture of these strains was the
most effective in promoting increases in the biometric parameters of early plant 
growth. Thus, this study highlights the biotechnological potential of a
consortium of A. lwoffii Bac109 and P. agglomerans Bac131 for future applications
in sustainable cashew cultivation.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126600 
PMID: 33011553 

