
1. EFSA J. 2020 Feb 28;18(2):e06020. doi: 10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6020. eCollection 2020
Feb.

Safety and efficacy of l-cystine produced using Pantoea ananatis strain NITE
BP-02525 for all animal species.

EFSA Panel on Additives and Products or Substances used in Animal Feed (FEEDAP), 
Bampidis V, Azimonti G, Bastos ML, Christensen H, Dusemund B, Kos Durjava M,
Kouba M, López-Alonso M, López Puente S, Marcon F, Mayo B, Pechová A, Petkova M, 
Ramos F, Sanz Y, Villa RE, Woutersen R, Cocconcelli PS, Glandorf B, Herman L,
Maradona MP, Saarela M, Anguita M, Galobart J, Holczknecht O, Manini P, Pettenati
E, Pizzo F, Tarrés-Call J.

Following a request from the European Commission, the Panel on Additives and
Products or Substances used in Animal Feed (FEEDAP) was asked to deliver a
scientific opinion on l-cystine produced using Pantoea ananatis NITE BP-02525
when used as a nutritional additive (amino acid) or as a sensory additive
(flavouring compound) in feed and water for drinking for all animal species.
l-Cystine is a dispensable sulfur-containing amino acid, naturally occurring in
proteins of plants and animals. The amino acid l-cystine produced by fermentation
with P. ananatis NITE BP-02525 is safe for all animal species, if the
requirements for sulfur-containing amino acids are respected. The maximum amount 
of l-cystine that can be safely added to the diet will depend on the levels of
other sulfur amino acids. This conclusion would also cover its use as a sensory
additive. The use of l-cystine produced by fermentation with P. ananatis NITE
BP-02525 in animal nutrition raises no safety concerns to consumers of animal
products. The additive under assessment is considered slightly irritating by
inhalation, not irritating to the skin or eyes and is not a skin sensitiser.
There is no risk for persons handling the additive from the exposure to
endotoxins by inhalation. The use of the l-cystine produced by fermentation with 
P. ananatis NITE BP-02525 as a feed additive does not represent a risk to the
environment. l-Cystine is considered efficacious in partially meeting the
requirements of sulfur-containing amino acids in all animal species. For the
supplemental l-cystine to be as efficacious in ruminants as in non-ruminant
species, it would require protection against degradation in the rumen. It is also
considered efficacious as a feed flavouring compound under the proposed
conditions of use.

© 2020 European Food Safety Authority. EFSA Journal published by John Wiley and
Sons Ltd on behalf of European Food Safety Authority.

DOI: 10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6020 
PMCID: PMC7448023
PMID: 32874229 

