
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 16;8(9). pii: E1423. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091423.

Fatty Acids from Hermetia illucens Larvae Fat Inhibit the Proliferation and
Growth of Actual Phytopathogens.

Marusich E(1), Mohamed H(1), Afanasev Y(1), Leonov S(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological and Medical Physics, Moscow Institute of Physics and
Technology, 141700 Dolgoprudny, Moscow Region, Russia.
(2)Institute of Cell Biophysics of the Russian Academy of Sciences, 142290
Pushchino, Moscow Region, Russia.

The rapid increase of plant diseases caused by bacterial phytopathogens calls for
an urgent search for new antibacterials. Antimicrobial compounds of natural
origin stand up as frontiers in the attempts of the antibiotic overuse
replacement. With this in mind, the Hermetia illucens (H. illucens) larvae have
recently gained attention as a promising approach to fulfill this need. This
study aimed to isolate the active constituents of H. illucens larvae fat and to
estimate its antimicrobial capacity. We discovered the best composition of
extracting solution retaining the pronounced antimicrobial activity of the
extract. Using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), we identified the
unique natural array of fatty acids as the major constituents of the acidified
water-methanol extract (AWME) as having new antimicrobial potency. In standard
turbidimetric assay, the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of the AWME was
0.78 mg/mL after 24 h of incubation for all five tested phytopathogenic bacteria 
strains: Pantoea agglomerans, Xanthomonas campestris, Pectobacterium carotovorum 
subsp. carotovorum, Pectobacterium atrosepticum, and Dickeya solani. The minimum 
bactericidal concentration (MBC) ranged from 0.78 to 1.56 mg/mL against all
tested strains after 24 h of incubation. The inhibition zone size of AWME (INZ)
at 50 mg/mL concentration was in the range 12.2 ± 0.56 to 19.0 ± 0.28 mm, while
zone size for the positive control (penicillin-streptomycin) (5000 IU/mL-5000
µg/mL) was in the scale of 20.63 ± 0.53 to 24.0 ± 0.35 mm as revealed by standard
disk diffusion assay. For the first time, our findings indicated the substantial 
antibacterial potential of AWME of H. illucens larvae fat against these actual
phytopathogens, thus paving the way for further research to determine the
mechanism of action in crop protection.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091423 
PMID: 32948050 

