
1. PLoS One. 2019 Nov 4;14(11):e0224731. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0224731.
eCollection 2019.

Molecular validation of clinical Pantoea isolates identified by MALDI-TOF.

Soutar CD(1), Stavrinides J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Regina, Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada.

The Enterobacterial genus Pantoea contains both free-living and host-associating 
species, with considerable debate as to whether documented reports of human
infections by members of this species group are accurate. MALDI-TOF-based
identification methods are commonly used in clinical laboratories as a rapid
means of identification, but its reliability for identification of Pantoea
species is unclear. In this study, we carried out cpn60-based molecular typing of
54 clinical isolates that had been identified as Pantoea using MALDI-TOF and
other clinical typing methods. We found that 24% had been misidentified, and were
actually strains of Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Kosakonia, Klebsiella,
Pseudocitrobacter, members of the newly described Erwinia gerundensis, and even
several unclassified members of the Enterobacteriaceae. The 40 clinical strains
that were confirmed to be Pantoea were identified as Pantoea agglomerans, Pantoea
allii, Pantoea dispersa, Pantoea eucalypti, and Pantoea septica as well as the
proposed species group, Pantoea latae. Some species groups considered largely
environmental or plant-associated, such as P. allii and P. eucalypti were also
among clinical specimens. Our results indicate that MALDI-TOF-based
identification methods may misidentify strains of the Enterobacteriaceae as
Pantoea.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0224731 
PMCID: PMC6827907
PMID: 31682625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

