
1. J Food Sci. 2020 Sep 17. doi: 10.1111/1750-3841.15453. [Epub ahead of print]

AFM imaging of extracellular ice nucleators.

Gezgin Z(1)(2), Lee TC(1), Huang Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science, Rutgers University, 65 Dudley Road, New Brunswick,
NJ, 08901-8520, USA.
(2)TUBITAK, The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey, Tunus
Caddesi No: 80, 06100, Kavaklıdere, Ankara, Turkey.

Ice nucleators are substances that can initiate nucleation of pure water at and
above -10 °C. Some plant pathogens possess a gene which encodes for a protein
that acts as an ice nucleator, activity of which is enhanced when it is combined 
with the sugar and lipid components from the cell membrane. This matter retains
its ice nucleation activity even after it is detached from the cell wall, and is 
termed extracellular ice nucleator (ECIN). In this paper, surface morphology of
ECINs was investigated using atomic force microscopy (AFM) in tapping mode. ECINs
were immobilized onto polyelectrolyte multilayers using the layer by layer
deposition method. Effect of layer build-up, method of ECIN production, and
polyelectrolytes used for multilayer fabrication were investigated. Globular and 
rod-like structures were observed on the AFM images of the nano-thin ECIN layers.
Activity of ECINs, tested in food solutions in earlier studies, was retained when
applied as a nano-thin layer onto a silicon wafer surface. Protein aggregate
sizes decreased when higher centrifugation speeds were applied, and ice
nucleation activity also decreased. Nucleation occurred faster and at higher
temperatures when substrates were immersed in solutions of higher ECIN
concentration, whereas number of bilayers formed did not have a significant
effect. Higher concentration ECIN dipping solutions also led to the formation of 
thicker and denser ECIN layers as observed via AFM imaging. PRACTICAL
APPLICATION: This study demonstrates the properties of nano-thin ECIN layers,
which can crystallize pure water into ice at higher temperatures and in shorter
time. Accelerating ice nucleation can potentially be utilized to freeze liquids
in shorter time hence using less energy, or improve frozen foods' stability
against the risk of cold chain breakage.

© 2020 Institute of Food Technologists®.

DOI: 10.1111/1750-3841.15453 
PMID: 32940354 

