
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 22;8(9). pii: E1449. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091449.

Population Dynamics between Erwinia amylovora, Pantoea agglomerans and
Bacteriophages: Exploiting Synergy and Competition to Improve Phage Cocktail
Efficacy.

Gayder S(1)(2), Parcey M(1)(2), Nesbitt D(2), Castle AJ(3), Svircev AM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Biotechnology, Brock University, St. Catharines, ON L2S 3A1,
Canada.
(2)Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Vineland Station, ON L0R 2E0, Canada.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Brock University, St. Catharines, ON L2S
3A1, Canada.

Bacteriophages are viruses capable of recognizing with high specificity,
propagating inside of, and destroying their bacterial hosts. The phage lytic life
cycle makes phages attractive as tools to selectively kill pathogenic bacteria
with minimal impact on the surrounding microbiome. To effectively harness the
potential of phages in therapy, it is critical to understand the phage-host
dynamics and how these interactions can change in complex populations. Our model 
examined the interactions between the plant pathogen Erwinia amylovora, the
antagonistic epiphyte Pantoea agglomerans, and the bacteriophages that infect and
kill both species. P. agglomerans strains are used as a phage carrier; their role
is to deliver and propagate the bacteriophages on the plant surface prior to the 
arrival of the pathogen. Using liquid cultures, the populations of the pathogen, 
carrier, and phages were tracked over time with quantitative real-time PCR. The
jumbo Myoviridae phage ϕEa35-70 synergized with both the Myoviridae ϕEa21-4 and
Podoviridae ϕEa46-1-A1 and was most effective in combination at reducing E.
amylovora growth over 24 h. Phage ϕEa35-70, however, also reduced the growth of
P. agglomerans. Phage cocktails of ϕEa21-4, ϕEa46-1-A1, and ϕEa35-70 at
multiplicities of infections (MOIs) of 10, 1, and 0.01, respectively, no longer
inhibited growth of P. agglomerans. When this cocktail was grown with P.
agglomerans for 8 h prior to pathogen introduction, pathogen growth was reduced
by over four log units over 24 h. These findings present a novel approach to
study complex phage-host dynamics that can be exploited to create more effective 
phage-based therapies.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091449 
PMID: 32971807 

