
1. Cells. 2020 Sep 16;9(9). pii: E2104. doi: 10.3390/cells9092104.

In Vitro Characterization of Gut Microbiota-Derived Commensal Strains: Selection 
of Parabacteroides distasonis Strains Alleviating TNBS-Induced Colitis in Mice.

Cuffaro B(1)(2), Assohoun ALW(2)(3), Boutillier D(1), Súkeníková L(4), Desramaut 
J(1), Boudebbouze S(2), Salomé-Desnoulez S(5), Hrdý J(4), Waligora-Dupriet AJ(6),
Maguin E(2), Grangette C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Lille, CNRS, Inserm, CHU Lille, Institut Pasteur de Lille,
U1019-UMR 9017-CIIL-Centre d'Infection et d'Immunité de Lille, 59000 Lille,
France.
(2)Institut Micalis, MIHA Team, Université Paris-Saclay, INRAE, AgroParisTech,
78350 Jouy-en-Josas, France.
(3)Laboratoire de Biotechnologie et Microbiologie des Aliments, UFR en Sciences
et Technologies des Aliments, Université Nangui Abrogoua, Abidjan 00225, Côte
d'Ivoire.
(4)Institute of Immunology and Microbiology, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles
University and General University Hospital, 121 08 Prague, Czech Republic.
(5)Université de Lille, CNRS, Inserm, CHU Lille, Institut Pasteur de Lille, US
41-UMS 2014-PLBS, 59000 Lille, France.
(6)UMR-S1139 INSERM, Faculté de Pharmacie de Paris, Université de Paris, 75006
Paris, France.

Alterations in the gut microbiota composition and diversity seem to play a role
in the development of chronic diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease
(IBD), leading to gut barrier disruption and induction of proinflammatory immune 
responses. This opens the door for the use of novel health-promoting bacteria. We
selected five Parabacteroides distasonis strains isolated from human adult and
neonates gut microbiota. We evaluated in vitro their immunomodulation capacities 
and their ability to reinforce the gut barrier and characterized in vivo their
protective effects in an acute murine model of colitis. The in vitro beneficial
activities were highly strain dependent: two strains exhibited a potent
anti-inflammatory potential and restored the gut barrier while a third strain
reinstated the epithelial barrier. While their survival to in vitro gastric
conditions was variable, the levels of P. distasonis DNA were higher in the
stools of bacteria-treated animals. The strains that were positively scored in
vitro displayed a strong ability to rescue mice from colitis. We further showed
that two strains primed dendritic cells to induce regulatory T lymphocytes from
naïve CD4+ T cells. This study provides better insights on the functionality of
commensal bacteria and crucial clues to design live biotherapeutics able to
target inflammatory chronic diseases such as IBD.

DOI: 10.3390/cells9092104 
PMID: 32947881 

