
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 May 15;10:188. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00188.
eCollection 2020.

Gut Microbiota and Gestational Diabetes Mellitus: A Review of Host-Gut Microbiota
Interactions and Their Therapeutic Potential.

Hasain Z(1)(2), Mokhtar NM(1)(3), Kamaruddin NA(4), Mohamed Ismail NA(5), Razalli
NH(3)(6), Gnanou JV(7), Raja Ali RA(3)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia,
Cheras, Malaysia.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, National Defence University of Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia.
(3)GUT Research Group, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia.
(4)Endocrine Unit, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti
Kebangsaan Malaysia, Cheras, Malaysia.
(5)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti
Kebangsaan Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(6)Dietetic Program, Faculty of Health Sciences, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(7)School of Medicine, International Medical University, Bukit Jalil, Malaysia.
(8)Gastroenterology Unit, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti
Kebangsaan Malaysia, Cheras, Malaysia.

Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is defined as impaired glucose tolerance
recognized during pregnancy. GDM is associated with metabolic disorder
phenotypes, such as obesity, low-grade inflammation, and insulin resistance.
Following delivery, nearly half of the women with a history of GDM have
persistent postpartum glucose intolerance and an increased risk of developing
type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), as much as 7-fold. The alarming upward trend may
worsen the socioeconomic burden worldwide. Accumulating evidence strongly
associates gut microbiota dysbiosis in women with GDM, similar to the T2DM
profile. Several metagenomics studies have shown gut microbiota, such as
Ruminococcaceae, Parabacteroides distasonis, and Prevotella, were enriched in
women with GDM. These microbiota populations are associated with metabolic
pathways for carbohydrate metabolism and insulin signaling, suggesting a
potential "gut microbiota signature" in women with GDM. Furthermore, elevated
expression of serum zonulin, a marker of gut epithelial permeability, during
early pregnancy in women with GDM indicates a possible link between gut
microbiota and GDM. Nevertheless, few studies have revealed discrepant results,
and the interplay between gut microbiota dysbiosis and host metabolism in women
with GDM is yet to be elucidated. Lifestyle modification and pharmacological
treatment with metformin showed evidence of modulation of gut microbiota and
proved to be beneficial to maintain glucose homeostasis in T2DM. Nonetheless,
post-GDM women have poor compliance toward lifestyle modification after delivery,
and metformin treatment remains controversial as a T2DM preventive strategy. We
hypothesized modulation of the composition of gut microbiota with probiotics
supplementation may reverse postpartum glucose intolerance in post-GDM women. In 
this review, we addressed gut microbiota dysbiosis and the possible mechanistic
links between the host and gut microbiota in women with GDM. Furthermore, this
review highlights the potential therapeutic use of probiotics in post-GDM women
as a T2DM preventive strategy.

Copyright Â© 2020 Hasain, Mokhtar, Kamaruddin, Mohamed Ismail, Razalli, Gnanou and
Raja Ali.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00188 
PMCID: PMC7243459
PMID: 32500037 

