
1. Anaerobe. 2020 Oct;65:102239. doi: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2020.102239. Epub 2020 Aug 
3.

Paraclostridium dentum, a novel species with pathogenic features isolated from
human dental plaque sample.

Urvashi(1), Choksket S(1), Jain A(2), Sharma D(1), Grover V(3), Korpole S(4).

Author information: 
(1)CSIR-Institute of Microbial Technology, Sector 39A, Chandigarh, India.
(2)Dr. Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital, Panjab
University, Chandigarh, India.
(3)Dr. Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital, Panjab
University, Chandigarh, India. Electronic address:
vishakha_grover@rediffmail.com.
(4)CSIR-Institute of Microbial Technology, Sector 39A, Chandigarh, India.
Electronic address: suresh@imtech.res.in.

A strictly anaerobic bacterial strain designated as SKVG24 was isolated from
subgingival dental plaque samples of patients suffering from periodontitis. Cells
were stained Gram-positive, rod shaped with endospore. The strain showed negative
reaction to catalase and oxidase enzymes, but positive for gelatinase activity.
Optimal growth was observed at 37 °C temperature and 7.0 pH. The 16S rRNA gene
sequence BLAST analysis assigned strain SKVG24 to the genus Paraclostridium as it
displayed 99.93% identity with P. benzoelyticum JC272T followed by
P. bifermentans ATCC 638T (99.79%). However, average nucleotide identity (ANI)
and digital DNA-DNA hybridization (dDDH) of the whole genome sequence showed <97%
and <70% identity, respectively, with type strains of all closely related
species. The G + C content of the DNA was 28.7 mol%. Total lipids profile showed 
presence of glycolipids as major lipids. Pathogenic features like hemolysis,
gelatin hydrolysis and production of volatile sulfur compounds exhibited by
strain SKVG24T were analogous to those observed in the established oral
pathogenic strains. Further, whole genome sequence analysis confirmed the
presence of genes encoding virulence factors and provided genomic insights on
adaptation of the strain in oral environment. Based on the phenotypic and genetic
differences with phylogenetic relatives, strain SKVG24T is proposed to represent 
a new species of the genus Paraclostridium with potential pathogenic ability, for
which the name Paraclostridium dentum sp. nov., is suggested. The proposed type
strain is SKVG24T (MTCC 12836T; = JCM 32760T).

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2020.102239 
PMID: 32758667 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors of 
this manuscript declare no conflict of interests.

