
1. Carcinogenesis. 2020 Jul 14;41(7):909-917. doi: 10.1093/carcin/bgaa018.

Parabacteroides distasonis attenuates tumorigenesis, modulates inflammatory
markers and promotes intestinal barrier integrity in azoxymethane-treated A/J
mice.

Koh GY(1), Kane AV(2), Wu X(1), Crott JW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vitamins and Carcinogenesis Laboratory, Jean Mayer USDA Human Nutrition
Research Center on Aging at Tufts University, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Phoenix Laboratory, Tufts University Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.

Imbalance of the gut microbial community promotes inflammation and colorectal
cancer (CRC). Previously, we demonstrated that freeze-dried Parabacteroides
distasonis (Pd) suppressed obesity-driven colorectal tumorigenesis in mice. Here,
we investigated if Pd could suppress the development of colon tumors in mice
independent of obesity. Six-week-old male A/J mice were assigned to receive: (i) 
chow diet (CTR); (ii) chow with 0.04% wt/wt freeze-dried Pd (Pd-Early) or (iii)
chow diet before switching to 0.04% Pd diet (Pd-Late). Mice remained on diet for 
25 weeks with the switch for Pd-Late mice occurring after 19 weeks. All mice
received 6 weekly injections of the colon carcinogen azoxymethane (AOM; 10 mg/kg 
I.P.) starting after 1 week on diet. Colon tumors were observed in 77, 55 and 40%
in CTR, Pd-Early and Pd-Late mice, respectively (X2 = 0.047). Colonic expression 
of toll-like receptor 4, IL-4 and TNF-α was 40% (P < 0.01), 58% (P = 0.05) and
55% (P < 0.001) lower, respectively, in Pd-Early compared with CTR mice. Pd-Late 
mice displayed a 217% (P = 0.05) and 185% (P < 0.001) increase in colonic IL-10
and TGF-β expression, respectively, compared with CTR mice and similar increases 
in protein abundances were detected (47-145%; P < 0.05). Pd-Early and Pd-Late
mice both demonstrated increased colonic expression of the tight junction
proteins Zonula occludens-1 (P < 0.001) and occludin (P < 0.001) at the
transcript (2-3-fold; P < 0.01) and protein level (30-50%; P < 0.05) relative to 
CTR. Our results support a protective role for Pd in colonic tumorigenesis and
maintenance of intestinal epithelial barrier in AOM-treated mice.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/carcin/bgaa018 
PMID: 32115637 

