
1. Microb Drug Resist. 2020 May 14. doi: 10.1089/mdr.2019.0462. [Epub ahead of
print]

Trends and Impact in Antimicrobial Resistance Among Bacteroides and
Parabacteroides Species in 2007-2012 Compared to 2013-2017.

Kierzkowska M(1)(2), Majewska A(1)(2), Mlynarczyk G(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw,
Poland.
(2)Department of Medical Microbiology, The Infant Jesus Teaching Hospital,
Warsaw, Poland.

Purpose: The aim of this study was to analyze the susceptibility of Bacteroides
and Parabacteroides spp. strains, isolated from patients hospitalized in the
clinical hospital in Poland to penicillin, amoxicillin with clavulanic acid,
imipenem, clindamycin, and metronidazole. Methods: We analyzed susceptibility of 
476 isolates to routinely use for the treatment of anaerobic bacterial infections
antibiotics. E test method was used to determining the minimal inhibitory
concentration values. To show the trend of drug resistance, we compared data from
two periods within the years 2003-2017. Results: Research results indicate that
the problem of resistance is mainly related to strains belonging to non-fragilis 
Bacteroides. In the analyzed periods, there was an increase in the percentage of 
clindamycin-resistant isolates (35.21% vs. 53.33%), amoxicillin/clavulanic acid
(2.83% vs. 8.15%), and imipenem (1.41% vs. 3.7%). In isolates belonging to
Parabacteroides distasonis, we observed a constant high (âˆ¼50%) percentage of
clindamycin-resistant strains. The overwhelming majority of B. fragilis strains
were resistant to penicillin (>95%) and about 20% of the isolates were not
susceptible to clindamycin. Conclusions: Clindamycin, due to the high and
increasing percentage of resistant strains, may not be a good choice in the
empirical therapy of infections caused by Bacteroides and P. distasonis. Our
study highlighted the importance of a routine or at least periodic monitoring of 
antimicrobial susceptibility of anaerobic Gram-negative bacilli, providing
important information for appropriate therapy. The study shows that infection
caused (or suspected of being caused) by Bacteroides and Parabacteroides spp. can
be empirically treated with metronidazole or imipenem.

DOI: 10.1089/mdr.2019.0462 
PMID: 32407191 

