
1. J Biotechnol. 2020 Aug 20;320:36-43. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.06.010. Epub
2020 Jun 15.

Molecular understanding of autotrophic CO2-fixing bacterial communities in
composting based on RuBisCO genes analysis.

Li M(1), Xu J(1), Jiang Z(1), Li Q(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Guangxi University, Nanning
530004, China.
(2)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Guangxi University, Nanning
530004, China; Key Laboratory of Guangxi Biorefinery, Guangxi University, Nanning
530004, China. Electronic address: liqunliang231@163.com.

The CO2 fixation by autotrophic microbes has an important significance for
improving carbon sequestration in composting. In this work, the succession of
autotrophic CO2-fixing bacterial communities was investigated using quantitative 
PCR and high-throughput sequencing of the ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate
carboxylase/oxygenase genes (cbbL and cbbM). The results presented that the
number of autotrophic CO2-fixing bacteria was comparable to that in the soil, and
most species have not been classified into known bacterial groups, only part of
them was assigned into Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria. Phylogenetic analysis
displayed that the dominant known cbbL-containing bacteria were Allochromatium
vinosum, Rhodobacter sphaeroides, Nitrobacter winogradskyi, Paracoccus yeei and
Porphyrobacter sp. CACIAM 03H1, while the dominant known cbbM-containing bacteria
were Sulfuritalea hydrogenivorans, Pseudomonas resinovorans, Achromobacter
xylosoxidans, Sphingopyxis macrogoltabida and Thermomonospora curvata. In
addition, canonical correspondence analysis showed that the evolution of
autotrophic CO2-fixing bacterial communities was greatly affected by
physico-chemical parameters such as temperature, C/N and pH.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.06.010 
PMID: 32553532 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

