
1. Glycoconj J. 2020 Aug 13. doi: 10.1007/s10719-020-09937-9. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparison of polysaccharide glycoconjugates as candidate vaccines to combat
Clostridiodes (Clostridium) difficile.

Cox AD(1), St Michael F(2), Aubry A(2), Strong PCR(2), Hayes AC(2), Logan SM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Vaccine Program, Human Health Therapeutics Portfolio, National Research
Council, Ottawa, ON, K1A 0R6, Canada. Andrew.Cox@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca.
(2)Vaccine Program, Human Health Therapeutics Portfolio, National Research
Council, Ottawa, ON, K1A 0R6, Canada.

Two known Clostridiodes (Clostridium) difficile surface antigens, a lipoteichoic 
acid (LTA) and a polysaccharide (PS-II) were isolated and purified in order to
prepare glycoconjugate vaccines to the carrier protein human serum albumin
utilising a reductive amination strategy. Mice and rabbits were immunized with a 
prime and two boost strategy and the resulting sera were examined for their
ability to recognise the purified homologous antigens and subsequently killed
whole cells of C. difficile strains and other Clostridia species. Immunisation
derived antisera from rabbits and mice, recognised all strains of C. difficile
vegetative cells examined, with generally similar titers from animals that
received the LTA or the PS-II conjugates. Sera raised to the LTA conjugates were 
able to recognise other Clostridia species C. butyricum, C. bifermentans and C.
subterminale whereas sera raised to the PS-II conjugates were not. These LTA and 
PS-II sera recognised live cells in an immunofluorescence assay and were also
able to recognise the spore form of the bacterium. This study has confirmed that 
the LTA and PS-II polysaccharides are both highly conserved surface polymers of
C. difficile that are easily accessible to the immune system and as such may have
potential as vaccine antigens or as targets for therapeutics to combat C.
difficile infection.

DOI: 10.1007/s10719-020-09937-9 
PMID: 32789783 

