
1. Case Rep Pediatr. 2020 Mar 9;2020:8304302. doi: 10.1155/2020/8304302. eCollection
2020.

Brain Abscess Associated with Polymicrobial Infection after Intraoral Laceration:
A Pediatric Case Report.

Ochi F(1), Tauchi H(1), Miyata T(1), Moritani T(1), Chisaka T(1), Hamada J(1),
Nagai K(1), Eguchi-Ishimae M(1), Eguchi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Ehime University Graduate School of Medicine, Toon, 
Ehime, Japan.

Brain abscesses, infections within the brain parenchyma, can arise as
complications of various conditions including infections, trauma, and surgery.
However, brain abscesses due to polymicrobial organisms have rarely been reported
in children. We herein report a case of a 9-year-old girl with unresolved
congenital cyanotic heart disease (CCHD) presenting with right hemiplegia who was
diagnosed with brain abscess caused by Streptococcus intermedius, Parvimonas
micra, and Fusobacterium nucleatum after oropharyngeal injury. She was treated
with intravenous antimicrobial therapy, drainage under craniotomy, and antiedema 
therapy with glycerol and goreisan, which led to the improvement of right
hemiplegia to baseline; she was discharged following eight weeks of intravenous
antimicrobial therapy. The clinical diagnosis of the brain abscess was difficult 
due to the nonspecific presentation, highlighting the importance of cranial
imaging without haste in patients at increased risk for brain abscesses such as
those with CCHD, presenting with fever in the absence of localizing symptoms or
fever, accompanied with abnormal neurological findings.

Copyright Â© 2020 Fumihiro Ochi et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/8304302 
PMCID: PMC7085370
PMID: 32231839 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts
of interests regarding the publication of this article.

