
1. Oncol Lett. 2020 Oct;20(4):106. doi: 10.3892/ol.2020.11967. Epub 2020 Aug 10.

Alteration of the abundance of Parvimonas micra in the gut along the
adenoma-carcinoma sequence.

Xu J(1), Yang M(2), Wang D(2), Zhang S(2), Yan S(1), Zhu Y(3), Chen W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow
University, Suzhou, Jiangsu 215006, P.R. China.
(2)Suzhou Precision Gene Biotechnology Co., Ltd., Suzhou, Jiangsu 215000, P.R.
China.
(3)Precision Gene, Inc., Fremont, CA 95134, USA.

Parvimonas micra (P. micra) is reported to be associated with colorectal cancer
(CRC). However, its association with colorectal adenoma (CRA) and its role in the
initiation of colorectal tumors remain unknown. The present study aimed to
clarify the relationship between P. micra and CRA and CRC by exploring the
changes of P. micra abundance in an adenoma-carcinoma sequence in a new cohort
and 4 public sequencing datasets. To investigate the alterations of P. micra
abundance in the gut along the adenoma-carcinoma sequence, quantitative PCR
(qPCR) was conducted to measure the relative abundance of P. micra in fecal
samples from 277 subjects (128 patients with CRA, 66 patients with CRC and 83
healthy individuals, as controls) who underwent colonoscopy as outpatients. Then,
the relative abundance of P. micra was analyzed in fecal samples from 596
subjects (185 healthy controls, 158 CRC, 253 CRA) in four public 16S rRNA
sequencing datasets. The qPCR results demonstrated that the CRA group had an
abundance of P. micra (P=0.2) similar to that of the healthy control group, while
the CRC group had a significantly increased abundance (P=8.2×10-11). The level of
P. micra effectively discriminated patients with CRC from healthy controls, while
it poorly discriminated patients with CRA from healthy controls; with an area
under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.867 for patients with CRC 
and 0.554 for patients with CRA. The same pattern of the alteration of P. micra
abundance, which was low in healthy controls and patients with CRA but elevated
in patients with CRC, was found in all four public sequencing datasets. These
results suggested that P. micra was closely associated with, and may serve as a
diagnostic marker for, CRC but not CRA. Moreover, it was indicated that P. micra 
may be an opportunistic pathogen of CRC, which may promote CRC development but
serve a limited role in tumorigenesis.

Copyright: © Xu et al.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2020.11967 
PMCID: PMC7439112
PMID: 32831925 

