
1. J Proteomics. 2020 Aug 30;226:103894. doi: 10.1016/j.jprot.2020.103894. Epub 2020
Jul 9.

Cell adherence efficacy of probiotic Pediococcus pentosaceus GS4 (MTCC 12683) and
demonstrable role of its surface layer protein (Slp).

Dubey V(1), Mishra AK(1), Ghosh AR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology, School of BioSciences and Technology,
Vellore Institute of Technology, Vellore 632014, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Integrative Biology, School of BioSciences and Technology,
Vellore Institute of Technology, Vellore 632014, Tamil Nadu, India. Electronic
address: asitranjanghosh@vit.ac.in.

The current study examined the cell adherence property of probiotic Pediococcus
pentosaceus GS4 (MTCC12683) with the characterization and functionality in
adherence of its surface layer protein (GS4-Slp). The Slp of P. pentosaceus GS4
was extracted purified and detected using SDS-PAGE (98 kDa) and size exclusion
chromatography. The cell adherence property of probiotic GS4 (Slp+/Slp-) was
evaluated on buccal cells and HCT-116. Purified Slp was found neutralized with
raised anti-Slp showing reduced adherence to HCT-116 as evident from SEM
analysis. The structure of GS4-Slp was determined by MALDI-TOF analysis, CD
analysis, atomic force microscopy (AFM), and FT-IR spectrometry. In Silico
approach revealed its indirect similarity with cell membrane protein of
Helicobacter pylori. Results thus reveal that GS4 has the potential of the
production of 98 kDa Slp which facilitates the cell adherence property. This
added probiotic attribute will enhance the probiotic potentials of P. pentosaceus
GS4 to use it biotechnologically. SIGNIFICANCE: Probiotic Pediococcus pentosaceus
GS4 facilitates demonstrable colonization by the elaboration of Slp. This
property imparts a value to the strain and claims to be more useful
biotechnologically.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jprot.2020.103894 
PMID: 32652219 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Authors declare
no conflict of interest.

