
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jul 14;8(7). pii: E1044. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8071044.

Low-Carbohydrate Tolerant LAB Strains Identified from Rumen Fluid: Investigation 
of Probiotic Activity and Legume Silage Fermentation.

Kuppusamy P(1), Kim D(2), Soundharrajan I(1), Park HS(1), Jung JS(1), Yang SH(1),
Choi KC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Grassland and Forages Division, National Institute of Animal Science, Rural
Development Administration, Cheonan 31000, Korea.
(2)Faculty of Biotechnology, College of Applied Life Science, Jeju National
University, Jeju 63243, Korea.

The objective of this study was to isolate and characterize lactic acid bacteria 
(LAB) with low carbohydrate tolerance from rumen fluid and to elucidate their
probiotic properties and the quality of fermentation of Medicago sativa L. and
Trifolium incarnatum L. silage in vitro. We isolated 39 LAB strains and screened 
for growth in MRS broth and a low-carbohydrate supplemented medium; among them,
two strains, Lactiplantibacillus plantarum (Lactobacillus plantarum) RJ1 and
Pediococcus pentosaceus S22, were able to grow faster in the low-carbohydrate
medium. Both strains have promising probiotic characteristics including
antagonistic activity against P. aeruginosa, E. coli, S. aureus, and E. faecalis;
the ability to survive in simulated gastric-intestinal fluid; tolerance to bile
salts; and proteolytic activity. Furthermore, an in vitro silage fermentation
study revealed that alfalfa and crimson clover silage inoculated with RJ1 and S22
showed significantly decreased pH and an increased LAB population at the end of
fermentation. Also, the highest lactic acid production was noted (p < 0.05) in
LAB-inoculated silage vs. non-inoculated legume silage at high moisture. Overall,
the data suggest that RJ1 and S22 could be effective strains for fermentation of 
legume silage.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8071044 
PMCID: PMC7409070
PMID: 32674395 

