
1. J Appl Microbiol. 2020 Jun 16. doi: 10.1111/jam.14750. [Epub ahead of print]

Technological variables influencing the growth and stability of a silage
inoculant based on spray-dried lactic acid bacteria.

Blajman JE(1), Vinderola G(2), Cuatrin A(3), Lingua MS(4), Páez RB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas, Instituto Nacional
de Tecnología Agropecuaria EEA Rafaela, Rafaela, Santa Fe, Argentina.
(2)Instituto de Lactología Industrial, Universidad Nacional del Litoral, Consejo 
Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas, Santa Fe, Argentina.
(3)Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria EEA Rafaela, Rafaela, Santa Fe, 
Argentina.
(4)Instituto de Ciencia y Tecnología de Alimentos Córdoba, Universidad Nacional
de Córdoba, Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas, Córdoba, 
Argentina.

AIMS: To investigate the influence of different culture media and fermentation
conditions on growth performance and viability of three lactic acid bacteria
(LAB) strains with potential as silage inoculants, and to optimize spray-drying
in order to enhance survival to dehydration and storage stability.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In house-formulated MRS was a suitable low-cost culture
medium for Lactobacillus plantarum Hv75, Pediococcus acidilactici 3903 and L.
buchneri B463. Uncontrolled pH biomass production conferred enhanced stability
during storage at 4°C after spray-drying. The use of whey protein concentrate 35 
(WPC)-maltodextrin (M) as matrix, inlet temperature of 145-150°C and air flow
rate of 601 l h-1 was adequate for the production of dehydrated LAB. According to
the desirability function, at this optimized condition, moisture content, yield
and solubility were predicted to be 3·96, 73·68 and 90·36% respectively. Those
conditions also showed a decrease of 0·855 log CFU per gram after drying, no loss
in viability at 4°C for 6 months and 1 log CFU per gram reduction at 25°C.
CONCLUSIONS: Stable and economically feasible dehydrated LAB cultures were
obtained using alternative culture media, fermentation under uncontrolled pH and 
optimizing spray-drying process conditions through the desirability function
method.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Our results can be utilized for efficient
production and commercialization of several dry LAB.

© 2020 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/jam.14750 
PMID: 32544979 

