
1. Foods. 2020 Aug 21;9(9). pii: E1154. doi: 10.3390/foods9091154.

Probiotic Properties and Antioxidant Activities of Pediococcus pentosaceus SC28
and Levilactobacillus brevis KU15151 in Fermented Black Gamju.

Yang SJ(1), Kim KT(1), Kim TY(2), Paik HD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Biotechnology of Animal Resources, Konkuk
University, Seoul 05029, Korea.
(2)Food Research Center, Hansan Food & Grocery Co., Emseong-gun 27733, Korea.

Black gamju is Korean traditional beverage fermented with molds. The aim of this 
study was to assess the probiotic properties and antioxidant activities of novel 
Pediococcus pentosaceus SC28 and Levilactobacillus brevis KU15151 to develop
black gamju with bioactive properties for health. Tolerance against artificial
gastric juice and bile salts, adhesion ability on HT-29 cells of strains, and
antibiotics susceptibility were evaluated as probiotics, and various enzyme
productions were detected. The 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl assay,
2,2'-azinobis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonate, and β-carotene bleaching assay 
were used for antioxidant activity of samples. The tolerance of both strains to
artificial gastric juice and bile salts (Oxgall) was more than 90%. Additionally,
both strains did not produce β-glucuronidase and were resistant to gentamicin,
kanamycin, streptomycin, and ciprofloxacin. After fermentation of black gamju
with each strain, the number of viable lactic acid bacteria increased to
8.25-8.95 log colony forming unit/mL, but the pH value of fermented samples
decreased more (to pH 3.33-3.41) than that of control (pH 4.37). L. brevis
KU15151 showed higher adhesion activity to HT-29 cells and antioxidant effects
than P. pentosaceus SC28 in three antioxidant assays.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9091154 
PMID: 32825754 

