
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Sep;103(9):7707-7718. doi: 10.3168/jds.2020-18271. Epub 2020
Jul 16.

Growth of lactic acid bacteria in milk phospholipids enhances their adhesion to
Caco-2 cells.

Rocha-Mendoza D(1), Kosmerl E(1), Miyagusuku-Cruzado G(1), Giusti MM(1),
Jiménez-Flores R(1), García-Cano I(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Parker Food Science and Technology 
Building, The Ohio State University, Columbus 43210.
(2)Department of Food Science and Technology, Parker Food Science and Technology 
Building, The Ohio State University, Columbus 43210. Electronic address:
garciacano.1@osu.edu.

The mechanisms of bacterial adhesion to human cells involve several complex
reactions and activation of genes and proteins. It has been reported that the
food components in dairy matrices, such as sugar or salt, can decrease bacterial 
adhesion to Caco-2 cells. However, it has not been evaluated whether the bacteria
grown in media supplemented with milk phospholipids (MPL) can increase or
decrease the adhesion of these cells. The objective of this work was to evaluate 
the effects of MPL on the kinetic growth of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and their 
functional characteristics as probiotics, expression of surface protein genes,
and adherence to Caco-2 cells. Seven LAB strains isolated from various dairy
products were characterized. Five of the tested LAB strains were able to grow in 
a chemically defined medium supplemented with MPL. Lactobacillus reuteri
OSU-PECh-48 showed the highest growth rate and the greatest optical density. All 
of the strains tested showed tolerance to acidic conditions at pH 3.0 and to bile
salts at 0.5 and 1% concentrations. Auto-aggregation and cell surface
hydrophobicity ability were evaluated, with nonsignificant differences between
the strains grown in MPL and without MPL. Gene expression of 6 surface proteins
was evaluated in the presence or absence of MPL. Pediococcus acidilactici
OSU-PECh-L and OSU-PECh-48 were the strains with highest relative expression of 5
of the 6 genes evaluated. Lactobacillus paracasei OSU-PECh-BA was the strain with
the lowest level of expression of surface protein genes. Most of the bacteria
tested had increased adhesion to Caco-2 cells after growth in MPL. The bacteria
with the highest degrees of adhesion observed were Lactobacillus paracasei
OSU-PECh-3B, Pediococcus acidilactici OSU-PECh-L, and Lactobacillus reuteri
OSU-PECh-48. The genes Cnb and EF-Tu increased in expression in the presence of
MPL in most of the LAB tested. The results obtained in this work demonstrate the 
high potential of these LAB strains for use as starters or beneficial cultures in
fermentation of not only dairy products but also other food fermentation
processes, with promising ability to increase residence time in the gut, modify
the microbiome, and improve human health.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-18271 
PMID: 32684482 

