
1. Food Funct. 2020 Jun 24;11(6):5607-5620. doi: 10.1039/d0fo00208a.

Pediococcus pentosaceus B49 from human colostrum ameliorates constipation in
mice.

Huang J(1), Li S(2), Wang Q(1), Guan X(1), Qian L(3), Li J(3), Zheng Y(3), Lin
B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Fujian Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, Fuzhou, 350003, P.R. China. linbin591@163.com and Fujian Key Laboratory
of Agricultural Product (Food) Processing, Fuzhou, 350003, P.R. China.
(2)Institute of Biotechnology, Fujian Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Fuzhou,
350003, P.R. China.
(3)Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Fujian Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, Fuzhou, 350003, P.R. China. linbin591@163.com.

Constipation is a prevalent and burdensome gastrointestinal (GI) disorder that
seriously affects the quality of human life. This study evaluated the effects of 
the P. pentosaceus B49 (from human colostrum) on loperamide (Lop)-induced
constipation in mice. Mice were given P. pentosaceus B49 (5 × 109 CFU or 5 × 1010
CFU) by gavage daily for 14 days. The result shows that P. pentosaceus B49
treatment relieved constipation in mice by shortening the defecation time,
increasing the GI transit rate and stool production. Compared with the
constipation control group, the P. pentosaceus B49-treated groups showed
decreased serum levels of inhibitory neurotransmitters (vasoactive intestinal
peptide and nitric oxide), increased serum levels of excitatory neurotransmitters
(acetylcholinesterase, motilin, and gastrin), and elevated cecal concentration of
short chain fatty acids (SCFAs). Analysis of cecal microbiota reveals that P.
pentosaceus B49 was colonized in the intestine of constipated mice, and altered
the cecal microbiota by increasing beneficial SCFAs-producing bacteria (i.e.,
Lactobacillus, Ruminococcaceae_UCG-014, and Bacteroidales_S24-7) and decreasing
potential pathogenic bacteria (i.e., Staphylococcus and Helicobacter). Moreover, 
transcriptome analysis of the colon tissue shows that P. pentosaceus B49 partly
normalized the expression of genes related to GI peristalsis (i.e., Ache, Chrm2, 
Slc18a3, Grp, and Vip), water and electrolyte absorption and transport (i.e.,
Aqp4, Aqp8, and Atp12a), while down-regulating the expression of pro-inflammatory
and pro-oncogenic genes (i.e., Lbp, Lgals2, Bcl2, Bcl2l15, Gsdmc2, and Olfm4) in 
constipated mice. Our findings indicate that P. pentosaceus B49 effectively
relieves constipation in mice and is a promising candidate for treating
constipation.

DOI: 10.1039/d0fo00208a 
PMID: 32525185 

