
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Aug 17. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-02016-5. [Epub ahead of
print]

In silico analyses of the genomes of three new bacteriocin-producing bacteria
isolated from animal's faeces.

Eveno M(1)(2), Belguesmia Y(1), Bazinet L(2), Gancel F(1), Fliss I(2), Drider
D(3).

Author information: 
(1)UMR Transfrontalière BioEcoAgro INRAE 1158, Univ. Lille, INRAE, Univ. Liège,
UPJV, YNCREA, Univ. Artois, Univ. Littoral Côte d'Opale, ICV - Institut Charles
Viollette, 59000, Lille, France.
(2)Department of Food Sciences, Institute of Nutrition and Functional Foods
(INAF), Dairy Research Center (STELA), Pavillon Paul-Comtois, Université Laval,
2425, rue de l'Agriculture, Québec, G1V 0A6, Canada.
(3)UMR Transfrontalière BioEcoAgro INRAE 1158, Univ. Lille, INRAE, Univ. Liège,
UPJV, YNCREA, Univ. Artois, Univ. Littoral Côte d'Opale, ICV - Institut Charles
Viollette, 59000, Lille, France. djamel.drider@univ-lille.fr.

Here, we have analysed and explored the genome sequences of three newly isolated 
bacteria that were recently characterised for their probiotic activities and
ability to produce bacteriocins. These strains, isolated from faeces of animals
living in captivity at the zoological garden of Lille (France), are Escherichia
coli ICVB443, Enterococcus faecalis ICVB501 and Pediococcus pentosaceus ICVB491. 
Their genomes have been analysed and compared to those of their pathogenic or
probiotic counterparts. The genome analyses of E. coli ICVB443 and Ent. faecalis 
ICVB501 displayed similarities to those of probiotics E. coli 1917 Nissle, and
Ent. faecalis Symbioflor 1, respectively. Furthermore, E. coli ICVB443 shares at 
least 89 genes with the enteroaggregative E. coli 55989 (EAEC), and Ent. faecalis
ICVB501 shares at least 315 genes with the pathogenic Ent. faecalis V583 strain. 
Unlike Ped. pentosaceus ICVB491, which is devoid of virulence genes, E. coli
ICVB443 and Ent. faecalis ICVB501 both carry genes encoding virulence factors on 
their genomes. Of note, the bioinformatics analysis of these two genomes located 
the bsh gene, which codes for bile salt hydrolase (BSH). The presence of BSH is
of major importance, as it can help to increase the viability of these two
strains in the gastrointestinal tract (GIT). The genome analysis of Ped.
pentosaceus ICVB491 confirmed its GRAS status (Generally Recognised As Safe), as 
no genomic virulence factor determinant was found.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-02016-5 
PMID: 32803347 

