
1. J Biosci Bioeng. 2020 Aug 1. pii: S1389-1723(20)30282-6. doi:
10.1016/j.jbiosc.2020.07.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Probiotic characterization of Pediococcus strains isolated from Iranian
cereal-dairy fermented product: Interaction with pathogenic bacteria and the
enteric cell line Caco-2.

Vasiee A(1), Falah F(1), Behbahani BA(2), Tabatabaee-Yazdi F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Faculty of Agriculture, Ferdowsi
University of Mashhad, Azadi Square, Mashhad 91779-48944, Iran.
(2)Department of Food Science and Technology, Faculty of Animal Science and Food 
Technology, Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources University of Khuzestan, 
Mollasani 63417-73637, Iran.
(3)Department of Food Science and Technology, Faculty of Agriculture, Ferdowsi
University of Mashhad, Azadi Square, Mashhad 91779-48944, Iran. Electronic
address: Tabatabai@um.ac.ir.

In present study, we investigated the probiotic potential of three Pediococcus
spp. isolated from Iranian traditional fermented cereal-dairy product, Tarkhineh.
These 3 strains were identified as Pediococcus acidilactici VKU2, P. acidilactici
IAH-5 and P. pentosaceus DHR005 by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. All the strain were 
found tolerate to pH 3 and 0.3% oxall for 3 h as well as simulated gastric and
intestinal juice. P. acidilactici IAH-5 showed the highest cholesterol removal
(67.52%), hydroxyl radical scavenging activity (58.32%), hydrophobicity (40.3%)
and auto-aggregation (48%). Pediococcus spp. inhibited the growth of tested
pathogens (Escherichia coli ATCC 25922, Pseudomonas aeruginosa PTCC 1707,
Salmonella typhimurium PTCC 1609, and Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923) which the
most susceptible strain was S. aureus. In competition assay, P. acidilactici
IAH-5 was able to inhibited adhesion of 67.3% of S. typhimurium and in inhibition
assay 45.8% of the pathogenic adhesion to Caco-2 cells were decreased.
P. acidilactici VKU2 and P. acidilactici IAH-5 showed 16.32 and 12.25% adhesion
to simulated epithelial cell line which were also confirmed by scanning electron 
microscopy. Pediococcus spp. did not showed DNase production or hemolytic
activity which confirm its safety aspects. Our findings suggested that the
P. acidilactici IAH-5 has the best properties with probiotic features and
cholesterol assimilation for its application as novel bio-therapeutic and
bio-preservation agents.

Copyright © 2020 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier B.V.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2020.07.002 
PMID: 32753308 

