
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jul 21;8(7). pii: E1083. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8071083.

Characterization of Pediococcus acidilactici PFC69 and Lactococcus lactis PFC77
Bacteriocins and Their Antimicrobial Activities in Tarhana Fermentation.

Kaya Hİ(1), Şimşek Ö(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Engineering, University of Bayburt, 69000 Bayburt, Turkey.
(2)Department of Food Engineering, University of Pamukkale, 20017 Denizli,
Turkey.

Tarhana is a traditional cereal product fermented by lactic acid bacteria (LAB)
and yeast strains that has gained special interest recently as an infant
nutrition. Tarhana contains wheat flour, yogurt, and various vegetables that
might create a microbiological toxicological risk, especially for Bacillus cereus
and Staphylococcus aureus. In this study, characterization of the metabolites
responsible for antibacterial activity of Pediococcus acidilactici PFC69 and
Lactococcus lactis PFC77 strains obtained from tarhana was performed, and
antibacterial effects were detected against B. cereus ATCC 11778 and S. aureus
ATCC 29213 during the fermentation. A total of 12,800 AU/mL antibacterial
activity was observed for the supernatants of the PFC69 and PFC77 strains that
were found to be stable at high temperature and in low pH conditions and
sensitive to proteases, suggesting the antimicrobial metabolite is a bacteriocin.
These bacteriocins were further purified and their molecular sizes were
determined as 4.5 and 3.5 kDa, respectively. Importantly, inoculation of PFC69
and PFC77 to tarhana dough significantly decreased B. cereus ATCC 11778 and S.
aureus ATCC 29213 amounts from the fifth day of fermentation compared to the
control dough samples. P. acidilactici PFC69 and L. lactis PFC77 strains were
concluded as bioprotective cultures for tarhana and these strains were offered
for other cereal-based fermentations.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8071083 
PMCID: PMC7409229
PMID: 32708067 

