
1. Animals (Basel). 2020 Jul 15;10(7). pii: E1201. doi: 10.3390/ani10071201.

Influence of the Fermented Feed and Vaccination and Their Interaction on
Parameters of Large White/Norwegian Landrace Piglets.

Vadopalas L(1), Badaras S(1), Ruzauskas M(2)(3), Lele V(1)(4), Starkute V(1)(4), 
Zavistanaviciute P(1)(4), Zokaityte E(1)(4), Bartkevics V(5)(6), Klupsaite D(1), 
Mozuriene E(1)(4), Dauksiene A(1)(2), Sidlauskiene S(1), Gruzauskas R(7),
Bartkiene E(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Animal Rearing Technologies, Lithuanian University of Health
Sciences, Tilžės g. 18, LT-47181 Kaunas, Lithuania.
(2)Department of Physiology and Anatomy, Lithuanian University of Health
Sciences, Tilžės g. 18, LT-47181 Kaunas, Lithuania.
(3)Microbiology and Virology Institute, Lithuanian University of Health Sciences,
Tilžės g. 18, LT-47181 Kaunas, Lithuania.
(4)Department of Food Safety and Quality, Lithuanian University of Health
Sciences, Tilžės g. 18, LT-47181 Kaunas, Lithuania.
(5)University of Latvia Faculty of Chemistry, Jelgavas iela 1, LV-1004 Riga,
Latvia.
(6)Institute of Food Safety, Animal Health and Environment BIOR, Lejupesiela 3,
LV-1076 Riga, Latvia.
(7)Department of Food Science and Technology, Kaunas University of Technology,
Radvilenu str. 19, LT-50254 Kaunas, Lithuania.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of fermented with a newly
isolated lactic acid bacteria (LAB) strains combination (Lactobacillus plantarum 
LUHS122, Lactobacillus casei LUHS210, Lactobacillus farraginis LUHS206,
Pediococcus acidilactici LUHS29, Lactobacillus plantarum LUHS135 and
Lactobacillus uvarum LUHS245) feed on non-vaccinated (NV) and vaccinated with
Circovac porcine circovirus type 2 vaccine (QI09AA07, CEVA-PHYLAXIA Co. Ltd.
Szállás u. 5. 1107 Budapest, Hungary) piglets' blood parameters, gut microbial
composition, growth performance and ammonia emission. The 36-day experiment was
conducted using 25-day-old Large White/Norwegian Landrace (LW/NL) piglets, which 
were randomly divided into four groups with 100 piglets each:
SnonV-non-vaccinated piglets fed with control group compound feed; SV-vaccinated 
piglets fed with control group compound feed; RFnonV-non-vaccinated piglets fed
with fermented compound feed; RFV-vaccinated piglets fed with fermented compound 
feed. Samples from 10 animals per group were collected at the beginning and end
of the experiment. Metagenomic analysis showed that fermentation had a positive
impact on the Lactobacillus prevalence during the post-weaning period of pigs,
and vaccination had no negative impact on microbial communities. Although a
higher amount of Lactobacillus was detected in vaccinated, compared with
non-vaccinated groups. At the end of experiment, there was a significantly higher
LAB count in the faeces of both vaccinated compared to non-vaccinated groups
(26.6% for SV and 17.2% for RFV), with the highest LAB count in the SV group. At 
the end of experiment, the SV faeces also had the highest total bacteria count
(TBC). The RFV group had a 13.2% increase in total enterobacteria count (TEC) at 
the end of experiment, and the SV group showed a 31.2% higher yeast/mould (Y/M)
count. There were no significant differences in the average daily gain (ADG)
among the groups; however, there were significant differences in the feed
conversion ratios (FCR) between several groups: SV vs. SnonV (11.5% lower in the 
SV group), RFV vs. RFnonV (10.2% lower in the RFnonV group) and SV vs. RFV (21.6%
lower in the SV group). Furthermore, there was a significant, very strong
positive correlation between FCR and TEC in piglets' faeces (R = 0.919, p =
0.041). The lowest ammonia emission was in RFV group section (58.2, 23.8, and
47.33% lower compared with the SnonV, SV and RFnonV groups, respectively).
Notably, there was lower ammonia emission in vaccinated groups (45.2% lower in SV
vs. SnonV and 47.33% lower in RFV vs. RFnonV). There was also a significant, very
strong positive correlation between ammonia emission and Y/M count in piglets'
faeces at the end of the experiment (R = 0.974; p = 0.013). Vaccination as a
separate factor did not significantly influence piglets' blood parameters.
Overall, by changing from an extruded soya to cheaper rapeseed meal and applying 
the fermentation model with the selected LAB combination, it is possible to feed 
piglets without any undesirable changes in health and growth performance in a
more sustainable manner. However, to evaluate the influence of vaccination and
its interaction with other parameters (feed, piglets' age, breed, etc.) on
piglets' parameters, additional studies should be performed and methods should be
standardised to ensure the results may be compared.

DOI: 10.3390/ani10071201 
PMCID: PMC7401620
PMID: 32679752 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

