
1. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Jun 24. doi: 10.4014/jmb.2005.05007. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Reduction of Trimethylamine Off-odor by Lactic Acid Bacteria Isolated from Korean
Traditional Fermented Food and Their In-situ Application.

Park SK(1), Jo DM(2), Yu D(3), Khan F(1), Lee YB(2), Kim YM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Food Science, Pukyong National University. Busan 48513, Republic 
of Korea.
(2)Department of Food Science and Technology, Pukyong National University, Busan 
48513, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Food and Nutrition, Changwon National University, Changwon
51140, Republic of Korea.

Trimethylamine (TMA) is a well-known off-odor compound in fish and fishery
products and is a metabolic product of trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) generated by
the enzymatic action of microorganism. The off-odor is one of the factors to
debase the values of fish and fishery products. The present study was aimed to
remove TMA using lactic acid bacteria (LAB). A total of fifteen isolates
exhibiting the TMA reduction efficacy were isolated from Korean traditional
fermented foods. Among these isolates, five LAB isolates (Lactobacillus plantarum
SKD 1, 4 and 15; Pediococcus stilesii SKD 11; P. pentosaceus SKD 14) were
selected based on their high TMA reduction efficacy. In-situ reduction of TMA
efficacy by the LAB cell-free supernatant was evaluated using a spoiled fish
sample. The results showed effective TMA reduction by strains such as SKD1 (45%),
SKD4 (62%), SKD11 (60%), SKD14 (59%), and SKD15 (52%), respectively. This is the 
first study on TMA reduction by the metabolic activity of LAB and in-situ
reduction of TMA using cell-free supernatant of LAB. The present finding suggests
an economically useful and ecofriendly approach to the reduction of TMA.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.2005.05007 
PMID: 32627760 

