
1. Foodborne Pathog Dis. 2020 Jul 14. doi: 10.1089/fpd.2020.2804. [Epub ahead of
print]

In Vitro Antibiofilm and Anti-inflammatory Properties of Bacteriocins Produced by
Pediococcus acidilactici Against Enterococcus faecalis.

Yoon JW(1), Kang SS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences and
Biotechnology, Dongguk University-Seoul, Goyang-si, Republic of Korea.

Although Enterococcus faecalis is known as a commensal microorganism in the
gastrointestinal tract, it is linked to various foodborne infections. In
addition, biofilm formation in E. faecalis is associated with the infections by
exacerbating inflammation. Hence, we demonstrated that bacteriocins produced by
Pediococcus acidilactici exhibited antibiofilm and anti-inflammatory activities
against E. faecalis. Bacteriocins of P. acidilactici K10 and HW01 strains
significantly reduced biofilm formation by E. faecalis on surfaces of polystyrene
(p < 0.005 and p < 0.01 at 24 h, respectively) and stainless steel (p < 0.005 and
p < 0.01 at 72 h, respectively), while both bacteriocins did not effectively
reduce the growth of E. faecalis planktonic cells. Moreover, extracellular
polymeric substances (EPSs) produced by E. faecalis were substantially decreased 
in the presence of P. acidilactici bacteriocin (p < 0.005), suggesting that E.
faecalis biofilm formation was reduced by decreasing the production of EPSs, but 
not by killing bacteria. The bacteriocin of P. acidilactici also reduced the
adhesion of E. faecalis to human intestinal epithelial cells (p < 0.005).
Furthermore, both bacteriocins significantly inhibited E. faecalis-induced
interleukin-8 production in human intestinal epithelial cells (p < 0.01 for K10
bacteriocin and p < 0.005 for HW01 bacteriocin). These results suggest that the
bacteriocin of P. acidilactici can eradicate E. faecalis biofilms and inhibit the
E. faecalis-induced inflammatory response in intestinal epithelial cells.

DOI: 10.1089/fpd.2020.2804 
PMID: 32678667 

