
1. Nutrients. 2020 Jul 3;12(7). pii: E1989. doi: 10.3390/nu12071989.

A Double-Blind, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled Trial of Heat-Killed Pediococcus
acidilactici K15 for Prevention of Respiratory Tract Infections among Preschool
Children.

Hishiki H(1), Kawashima T(2), Tsuji NM(3), Ikari N(2), Takemura R(4)(5), Kido
H(6), Shimojo N(1)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Chiba University Hospital, Chiba 260-8670, Japan.
(2)Research and Development Division, Kikkoman Corporation, Chiba 278-0037,
Japan.
(3)Biomedical Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced Industrial
Science and Technology, Ibaraki 305-0046, Japan.
(4)Clinical Research Center, Chiba University Hospital, Chiba 260-8677, Japan.
(5)Clinical and Translational Research Center, Keio University Hospital, Tokyo
160-8582, Japan.
(6)Institute for Enzyme Research, Tokushima University, Tokushima 770-8503,
Japan.
(7)Center for Preventive Medical Sciences, Chiba University, Chiba 263-8522,
Japan.

Although some probiotic bacteria have been reported to prevent infections in
children, there are few well-designed double-blind studies. Here we evaluated the
effects of a probiotic strain of lactic acid bacteria (LAB), Pediococcus
acidilactici K15, on viral respiratory tract infections in preschool children. A 
four-month, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was performed in
172 healthy children aged 3 to 6 years. Subjects were administered dextrin alone 
or dextrin including heat-killed K15 (5 Ã— 1010 bacteria). The number of febrile
days was the primary outcome. The number of absent days from preschools and the
influenza incidence were secondary outcomes. Secretory IgA (sIgA) concentrations 
in saliva were measured as an exploratory outcome. The primary and secondary
outcomes were not significantly different between both groups. Analyses in
children with little intake of fermented foods including LAB showed that the
duration of a fever significantly decreased by K15 intake. The salivary sIgA
level in the K15 group was maintained significantly higher than it was in the
placebo group. The effects of K15 on preventing viral respiratory tract
infections were not observed without the restriction of fermented foods intake.
However, K15 supported anti-infectious immune systems in children who took less
fermented foods and the maintenance of salivary sIgA levels in all subjects.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12071989 
PMCID: PMC7400799
PMID: 32635408 

