
1. EFSA J. 2020 Jun 15;18(6):e06166. doi: 10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6166. eCollection 2020
Jun.

Assessment of the application for renewal of the authorisation of Pediococcus
pentosaceus DSM 16244 as a feed additive for all animal species.

EFSA Panel on Additives and Products or Substances used in Animal Feed (FEEDAP), 
Bampidis V, Azimonti G, Bastos ML, Christensen H, Dusemund B, Kouba M, Kos
Durjava M, López-Alonso M, López Puente S, Marcon F, Mayo B, Pechová A, Petkova
M, Ramos F, Sanz Y, Villa RE, Woutersen R, Cocconcelli PS, Glandorf B, Herman L, 
Prieto Maradona M, Saarela M, Anguita M, Galobart J, Holczknecht O, Manini P,
Pizzo F, Tarrés-Call J, Pettenati E.

Following a request from the European Commission, the Panel on Additives and
Products or Substances used in Animal Feed (FEEDAP) was asked to deliver a
scientific opinion on the assessment of the application for renewal of
authorisation of Pediococcus pentosaceus DSM 16244 as a technological additive
for all animal species. The applicant has provided evidence that the additive
currently in the market complies with the existing conditions of authorisation.
There was no new evidence that would lead the FEEDAP Panel to reconsider its
previous conclusions. Thus, the Panel concluded that the additive remains safe
for all animal species, consumer and the environment under the authorised
conditions of use. The additive was not irritant to skin and eyes but considered 
a skin and respiratory sensitiser. The present application for renewal of the
authorisation did not include a proposal for amending or supplementing the
conditions of the original authorisation that would have an impact on the
efficacy of the additive. Therefore, there was no need for assessing the efficacy
of the additive in the context of the renewal of the authorisation.

© 2020 European Food Safety Authority. EFSA Journal published by John Wiley and
Sons Ltd on behalf of European Food Safety Authority.

DOI: 10.2903/j.efsa.2020.6166 
PMCID: PMC7448083
PMID: 32874341 

