
1. Food Sci Nutr. 2020 Aug 3;8(9):5077-5085. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.1807. eCollection
2020 Sep.

A study revealing volatile aroma produced by Pediococcus pentosaceus in dough
fermentation.

Gong Y(1), Qi X(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Food Science and Technology Huazhong Agricultural University Wuhan 
China.

Pediococcus pentosaceus is important probiotics in Chinese Laomian. Its role in
meat and fermented vegetable has been largely demonstrated, but few studies have 
investigated the role of P. pentosaceus in Chinese Laomian. For this purpose, we 
simulated Laomian fermentation using Saccharomyces cerevisiae and P. pentosaceus.
Volatile aroma was detected by headspace solid-phase microextraction
gas-chromatography-mass spectrometry. Real-time fluorescent quantitative
polymerase chain reaction was used to determine dynamic growth of S. cerevisiae
and P. pentosaceus in fermentation. Extracellular proteins were analyzed by
sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Folin-Ciocalteu method
was used to detect extracellular protease activity in different pH values. Owing 
to addition of P. pentosaceus, the types and contents of esters increase, the
relative contents of acetic acid hexyl ester, formic acid octyl ester, and
heptanoic acid ethyl ester rise obliviously; especially, the relative content of 
hexanoic acid ethyl ester was highly correlated with P. pentosaceus by increasing
20.61%. As the gel electrophoresis results display, due to mixed fermentation of 
S. cerevisiae and P. pentosaceus, the 25k Da and 51k Da proteins expression
quantity of P. pentosaceus clearly increased. Under neutral and alkaline culture 
conditions, the extracellular protease activity of P. pentosaceus is higher. This
research benefits to gain insight into the fermentation actions of P. pentosaceus
in Chinese Laomian.

© 2020 The Authors. Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.1807 
PMCID: PMC7500783
PMID: 32994968 

