
1. Food Res Int. 2020 Oct;136:109478. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109478. Epub 2020 
Jun 27.

Exploring the contribution of fructophilic lactic acid bacteria to cocoa beans
fermentation: Isolation, selection and evaluation.

Viesser JA(1), de Melo Pereira GV(2), de Carvalho Neto DP(1), Vandenberghe
LPS(1), Azevedo V(3), Brenig B(4), Rogez H(5), Góes-Neto A(6), Soccol CR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioprocess Engineering and Biotechnology, Federal University of 
Paraná (UFPR), 81531-970 Curitiba, PR, Brazil.
(2)Department of Bioprocess Engineering and Biotechnology, Federal University of 
Paraná (UFPR), 81531-970 Curitiba, PR, Brazil. Electronic address:
gilbertovinicius@gmail.com.
(3)Institute of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Minas Gerais,
31270-901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
(4)Institute of Veterinary Medicine, University of Göttingen, 37073 Göttingen,
Germany.
(5)Centre for Valorisation of Amazonian Bioactive Compounds (CVACBA), Federal
University of Pará, 66.095-780 Belém, PA, Brazil.
(6)Institute of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Minas Gerais,
31270-901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; Biological Sciences Department, State
University of Feira de Santana, 44036-900 Feira de Santana, BA, Brazil.

Fructophilic lactic acid bacteria (FLAB) are a recently discovered group whose
main characteristic is to prefer D-fructose over D-glucose. In this study,
laboratory cocoa beans fermentation was analyzed by Illumina-based amplicon
sequencing, indicating the presence of potential FLAB of the genera
Fructobacillus and Lactobacillus. Eighty efficient fructose-fermenting isolates, 
obtained from fermenting cocoa pulp beans mass, were identified by 16S rRNA gene 
sequencing as Pediococcus acidilactici (n = 52), Lactobacillus plantarum
(n = 10), Pediococcus pentosaceus (n = 10), Bacillus subtilis (n = 4), and
Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides (n = 4). The growth characteristics of all the 10
L. plantarum strains classified them as "facultatively" fructophilic bacteria,
i.e., they grew on glucose without an external electron acceptor but the growth
on fructose was faster. Among them, L. plantarum LPBF 35 was characterized by
producing a range of aroma-impacting compounds (acetaldehyde, ethyl acetate,
nonanal, and octanoic acid), being introduced into a cocoa fermentation process. 
Although the process started with approximately equal amounts of glucose and
fructose, a concomitant, but faster utilization of fructose, was observed in
cocoa fermentation conducted with L. plantarum LPBF 35 (with no residual fructose
observed) when compared to control fermentation using a glucophilic strain
(8.77 mg/g residual fructose) and a spontaneous process (8.38 mg/g residual
fructose). L. plantarum LPBF 35 also showed an ideal profile of organic acid
metabolism (citric acid consumption and lactic acid production) associated with
cocoa fermentation. These results proved new insights on cocoa microbial activity
and brings new perspectives on the use of lactic acid bacteria as starter
culture.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109478 
PMID: 32846561 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

