
1. J Biosci Bioeng. 2020 Aug 8. pii: S1389-1723(20)30210-3. doi:
10.1016/j.jbiosc.2020.05.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Biodiversity and techno-functional properties of lactic acid bacteria in
fermented hull-less barley sourdough.

Çakır E(1), Arıcı M(2), Durak MZ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Engineering, Chemical and Metallurgical Faculty, Yıldız
Technical University, Esenler, Istanbul 34210, Turkey. Electronic address:
cakir.elif2014@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Food Engineering, Chemical and Metallurgical Faculty, Yıldız
Technical University, Esenler, Istanbul 34210, Turkey.

The aim of this study was to characterize the biodiversity of lactic acid
bacteria (LAB) isolated from spontaneously-fermented hull-less barley sourdough
and to determine its technological properties. Biodiversity was investigated by
analysis of colonies isolated from sourdough on four different agar media. Of the
80 isolates, 67 were rapidly pre-identified as LAB using Fourier transforms
infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). As a result of cluster analysis, 32 lactic acid
bacteria chosen from different branches were identified. According to the
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) results, 9 different species were identified:
Pediococcus (dominant species), Lactobacillus curvatus, Lactobacillus brevis,
Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus fermentum, Lactobacillus musae,
Lactobacillus paralimentarius, Leuconostoc mesenteroides and Lactobacillus
equigenerosi. The most species and strain diversity among the media was
determined in ModMRS environment. Unlike other studies about hull-less barley,
Lactobacillus equigenerosi was identified in this study. LABs were identified
with salt and acid tolerance. Generally, different levels of antibacterial
activity in these species were shown against (rope spoilage) food borne
pathogens. The greatest antimicrobial effect was observed for Pediococcus
acidilactici SAB26, Lactobacillus plantarum SAB15 and Pediococcus acidilactici
SAB13 compared to the other strains. Pediococcus species were found to have the
highest antifungal effect against Penicillium carneum, Aspergillus flavus and A. 
niger. The phytase activity of LAB, which increases mineral bioavailability, was 
observed to be highest in Lactobacillus plantarum, Pediococcus pentosaceus, and
Leuconostoc mesenteroides.

Copyright © 2020 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier B.V.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2020.05.002 
PMID: 32782196 

