
1. Biomed Pharmacother. 2020 Sep;129:110488. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110488. Epub
2020 Jul 6.

Pediococcus acidilactici intake decreases the clinical severity of atopic
dermatitis along with increasing mucin production and improving the gut
microbiome in Nc/Nga mice.

Jeong DY(1), Ryu MS(1), Yang HJ(1), Jeong SY(1), Zhang T(2), Yang HJ(3), Kim
MJ(3), Park S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of R & D, Microbial Institute for Fermentation Industry, Sunchang, 
South Korea.
(2)Department of Food and Nutrition, Obesity/Diabetes Research Center, Hoseo
University, Asan, South Korea.
(3)Food Functional Research Division, Korean Food Research Institutes, Wanjoo,
55365, South Korea.
(4)Department of Food and Nutrition, Obesity/Diabetes Research Center, Hoseo
University, Asan, South Korea. Electronic address: smpark@hoseo.edu.

Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease that is associated 
with intestinal microflora. Since specific probiotics may have better efficacy
for AD, we determined the efficacy of Pediococcus acidilactici SRCM102024 (PA)
for treating AD in HaCaT cells and NC/Nga mice and explored the mechanism of
action. AD-like pathology was induced in HaCaT cells and the dorsal skin of
Nc/Nga mice by local exposure to 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB). In AD-lesion
induced mice, PA in low-, medium- and high-dosages (5 × 10E6, 5 × 10E7 and
5 × 10E8 CFU/kg bw, respectively) and dexamethasone (3 mg/kg bw,
positive-control) were orally administered for 5 weeks. The clinical AD severity,
serum immunoglobulin E (IgE) and TNF-α, gene expressions of interleukin (IL)-4,
IL-13, and TNF-α and gut microflora were measured. PA treatment (100-300 CFU/mL) 
dose-dependently increased cell survival in DNCB-induced HACAT cells. PA reduced 
the relative mRNA expression of PAR-2, TNF-α, IL-4 and IL-13 in the cells. In
dorsal skin of Nc/Nga mice applied with DNCB, PA dose-dependently attenuated
erythema, hemorrhage, edema, excoriation, dryness and scratching behavior and
PA-H improved the clinical symptoms similar to the positive-control. PA-M and
PA-H treatment significantly prevented the disturbance of the dorsal skin tissues
and decreased the inflammatory cellular infiltrate of mast cells, compared to the
control. PA dose-dependently reduced serum IgE and TNF-α concentrations and the
mRNA expression of TNF-α, IL-4, and IL-13 in dorsal skin. In gut microflora,
relative counts of Lactobacillales, Butyricicoccus and Ruminococcus were
decreased in the AD-control compared to the positive-control and the PA-M and
PA-H prevented their decrease. However, the positive-control increased serum AST 
and ALT activities, indicating liver damage as an adverse effect. In conclusion, 
oral treatment of PA (human equivalent 1 × 10E9-1 × 10E10) relieved the AD
symptoms by dose-dependently preventing over-activation of the immune response.
Oral PA intake may be a safe and effective alternative therapy for AD.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110488 
PMID: 32768968 

