
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 Nov 16;333:108814. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108814. Epub 2020 Aug 8.

Thermal inactivation of Salmonella, Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli,
Listeria monocytogenes, and a surrogate (Pediococcus acidilactici) on raisins,
apricot halves, and macadamia nuts using vacuum-steam pasteurization.

Acuff JC(1), Wu J(1), Marik C(1), Waterman K(1), Gallagher D(2), Huang H(1),
Williams RC(1), Ponder MA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Virginia Tech, Food Science and Technology, 1230 Washington St., Blacksburg,
VA 24061, USA.
(2)Virginia Tech, Civil and Environmental Engineering Department, 409 Durham
Hall, Blacksburg, VA 24061, USA.
(3)Virginia Tech, Food Science and Technology, 1230 Washington St., Blacksburg,
VA 24061, USA. Electronic address: Mponder@vt.edu.

Salmonella, Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC), and Listeria
monocytogenes have been isolated from low water activity foods (LWAF), where they
may survive for extended periods. The ready-to-eat nature of many LWAF, such as
dried fruits and nuts, warrants effective post-harvest thermal treatment for the 
reduction of pathogens such as low-temperature, saturated steam, also known as
vacuum-assisted steam pasteurization. The objective of this study was to
determine reductions of Salmonella, STEC, L. monocytogenes, and a possible
surrogate (Pediococcus acidilactici) on dried apricot halves, whole macadamia
nuts, and raisins after treatment with vacuum-assisted steam at three
temperatures (62 °C, 72 °C, or 82 °C) and multiple time intervals. Bacterial
inactivation was variable between commodities, with higher temperatures and
longer times necessary to achieve comparable reductions of pathogens on apricot
halves and macadamia nuts compared to raisins. Reductions of the tested pathogens
were comparable; therefore, one species was not more resistant than the others.
Pathogens were reduced by 5-log CFU/g on apricot halves after 20 min at 72 °C and
after 5 min at 82 °C. Longer treatment times were necessary to achieve reductions
of each pathogen on macadamia nuts. Pathogens were reduced by nearly 5 log CFU/g 
on macadamia nuts after 38 min at 72 °C (4.6-6.5 log CFU/g) and after 12 min at
82 °C (4.9-5.7 log CFU/g). Reductions of pathogens on raisins were achieved at
lower temperatures than necessary for the other foods. A 5-log reduction for each
of the pathogens (CFU/g) on raisins occurred after 20 min at 62 °C and after
5 min at 72 °C. Overall, the reductions of the pathogens exceeded those of P.
acidilactici on both the dried fruits and macadamia nuts. Statistically
significant differences, indicating greater confidence as a conservative
surrogate, were observed at lower treatment temperatures. Inactivation kinetics
were modeled for each pathogen on each food type and temperature. Bacterial
survival was best described by the Weibull model for raisins and macadamia nuts, 
while the Gompertz model best described reductions on apricot halves according to
Akaike information criterion (AIC) and root-mean-square error (RMSE) evaluations.
Water activity and moisture content were increased due to the treatments, which
could be addressed through implementation of drying steps. Thermal inactivation
kinetic models and 5-log reduction parameters can help food processors design and
evaluate similar vacuum-assisted steam interventions to comply with FSMA
regulations and preventive control plans. However, results or model predictions
should not be extrapolated to assume the safety of other types of foods.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108814 
PMID: 32805576 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
have no known conflicts of interest or competing financial interests.

