
1. BMC Oral Health. 2019 Nov 4;19(1):235. doi: 10.1186/s12903-019-0933-z.

Antimicrobial activity and pH measurement of calcium silicate cements versus new 
bioactive resin composite restorative material.

ElReash AA(1), Hamama H(2), Eldars W(3), Lingwei G(1), Zaen El-Din AM(4), Xiaoli 
X(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endodontic, Xiangya School of stomatology, Central South
University, Xiangya Road No 72. Kaifu, Changsha, 410078, Hunan province, China.
(2)Department of Operative Dentistry, Faculty of Dentistry, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura, Egypt.
(3)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine,
Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt.
(4)Department of Restorative Dentistry, Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine,
Delta University for Science and Technology, International Coastal Road, Gamasa, 
Mansoura, Egypt.
(5)Department of Endodontic, Xiangya School of stomatology, Central South
University, Xiangya Road No 72. Kaifu, Changsha, 410078, Hunan province, China.
xiexiaoli@csu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this in vitro study is to compare the antimicrobial
effect and pH of two calcium silicate cements Mineral trioxide aggregate high
plasticity (Angelus PR, Brazil) and iRoot BP Plus (BioCeramix Inc., Vancouver,
BC, Canada) and new bioactive restorative resin composite restorative material
(ACTIVA, MA, Pulpdent, USA) against aerobic bacteria, strictly anaerobic bacteria
and a yeast by using an agar diffusion test.
METHODS: The materials were tested immediately after manipulation and were
applied to the agar plates. Sodium hypochlorite (NaOCl) 5.25% was used as a
positive control group. The dry filter paper acted as a negative control group
for this study. The size of the inhibition zone for each material was measured
after 12, 24 and 48 h. At the time of pH measurement; materials were prepared,
crushed then dispersed in distilled water.
RESULTS: The one-way Anova test revealed that iRoot BP Plus significantly showed 
superior antimicrobial efficacy compared to MTA-HP against the following species;
Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus mutans, Enterococcus faecalis, Enterococcus 
faecium, Peptostreptococcus anaerobius and Candida albicans (P < 0.05). All of
the tested materials did not show any antimicrobial effect against Porphyromonas 
gingivalis and Actinomyces israelii. The new bioactive resin composite material
(ACTIVA) showed the least antimicrobial activity against the previously mentioned
microorganisms except E. faecalis. NaOCl significantly showed the highest
antimicrobial activity among the test group (P < 0.05). iRoot BP Plus was more
alkaline (pH 12.1 ± 0.14/ 11.9 ± 0.25) in comparison to MTA-HP (pH 11.6 ± 0.16/
11.2 ± 0.10) while ACTIVA was slightly acidic (pH 5.4 ± 0.09/ 6.5 ± 0.08).
CONCLUSIONS: According to the findings of this study, it was concluded that
calcium silicate- based cements showed a potential antimicrobial activity mainly 
due to its high alkalinity. The new bioactive resin composite restorative
material exhibits less antimicrobial activity due to its resinous ingredients and
slightly acidic nature. Antimicrobial effect of calcium silicate cements against 
strictly anaerobic bacterial species is still questionable.

DOI: 10.1186/s12903-019-0933-z 
PMCID: PMC6829974
PMID: 31684929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

