
1. Nat Microbiol. 2019 Dec;4(12):2319-2330. doi: 10.1038/s41564-019-0541-3. Epub
2019 Sep 9.

Peptostreptococcus anaerobius promotes colorectal carcinogenesis and modulates
tumour immunity.

Long X(1)(2)(3), Wong CC(1)(2)(3), Tong L(1)(2)(3), Chu ESH(1)(2)(3), Ho Szeto
C(1)(2)(3), Go MYY(1)(2)(3), Coker OO(1)(2)(3), Chan AWH(4), Chan FKL(1)(2)(3),
Sung JJY(1)(2)(3), Yu J(5)(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Digestive Disease and Department of Medicine and Therapeutics,
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Digestive Disease, Li Ka Shing Institute of Health
Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(3)Chinese University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Research Institute, Shenzhen, China.
(4)Department of Anatomical and Cellular Pathology, The Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(5)Institute of Digestive Disease and Department of Medicine and Therapeutics,
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China. junyu@cuhk.edu.hk.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Digestive Disease, Li Ka Shing Institute of Health
Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
junyu@cuhk.edu.hk.
(7)Chinese University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Research Institute, Shenzhen, China. 
junyu@cuhk.edu.hk.

Emerging evidence implicates a role of the gut microbiota in colorectal cancer
(CRC). Peptostreptococcus anaerobius (P. anaerobius) is an anaerobic bacterium
selectively enriched in the faecal and mucosal microbiota from patients with CRC,
but its causative role and molecular mechanism in promoting tumorigenesis remain 
unestablished. We demonstrate that P. anaerobius adheres to the CRC mucosa and
accelerates CRC development in ApcMin/+ mice. In vitro assays and transmission
electron microscopy revealed that P. anaerobius selectively adheres to CRC cell
lines (HT-29 and Caco-2) compared to normal colonic epithelial cells (NCM460). We
identified a P. anaerobius surface protein, putative cell wall binding repeat 2
(PCWBR2), which directly interacts with colonic cell lines via α2/β1 integrin, a 
receptor frequently overexpressed in human CRC tumours and cell lines.
Interaction between PCWBR2 and integrin α2/β1 induces the activation of the
PI3K-Akt pathway in CRC cells via phospho-focal adhesion kinase, leading to
increased cell proliferation and nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of
activated B cells (NF-κB) activation. NF-κB in turn triggers a pro-inflammatory
response as indicated by increased levels of cytokines, such as interleukin-10
and interferon-γ in the tumours of P. anaerobius-treated ApcMin/+ mice. Analyses 
of tumour-infiltrating immune cell populations in P. anaerobius-treated ApcMin/+ 
mice revealed significant expansion of myeloid-derived suppressor cells,
tumour-associated macrophages and granulocytic tumour-associated neutrophils,
which are associated with chronic inflammation and tumour progression. Blockade
of integrin α2/β1 by RGDS peptide, small interfering RNA or antibodies all impair
P. anaerobius attachment and abolish P. anaerobius-mediated oncogenic response in
vitro and in vivo. Collectively, we show that P. anaerobius drives CRC via a
PCWBR2-integrin α2/β1-PI3K-Akt-NF-κB signalling axis and identify the
PCWBR2-integrin α2/β1 axis as a potential therapeutic target for CRC.

DOI: 10.1038/s41564-019-0541-3 
PMID: 31501538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

