
1. J Gastrointest Oncol. 2019 Dec;10(6):1164-1170. doi: 10.21037/jgo.2019.06.04.

Genomics and metagenomics of colorectal cancer.

Ng C(1), Li H(2), Wu WKK(2)(3), Wong SH(3), Yu J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of
Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Science, State Key Laboratory of Digestive
Disease, Institute of Digestive Disease, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics,
Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(3)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a common cancer globally. It is a complex disease
influenced by genetic and environmental factors. Early studies on familial cases 
have identified major genes involved in CRC, such as proto-oncogenes KRAS, PIK3CA
and BRAF, and tumour-suppressor genes APC and TP53. These genes have provided
valuable insight into the molecular pathogenesis of CRC, and some have made ways 
to clinical utility to help diagnose cancer syndromes, prognosticate oncological 
outcomes and predict treatment responses. While these genetic factors are
important, recent studies have suggested contribution of microorganisms to
colorectal carcinogenesis. Observational studies, animal experiments and
translational works have identified several microorganisms as potential
carcinogenic bacteria, such as Fusobacterium nucleatum and Peptostreptococcus
anaerobius. With the advent of sequencing technology and bioinformatics, more
genomic and metagenomic factors are being uncovered as important players in CRC
carcinogenesis. This article aims to review recent genomic and metagenomic
discoveries relating to CRC.

2019 Journal of Gastrointestinal Oncology. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/jgo.2019.06.04 
PMCID: PMC6955013
PMID: 31949936 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have no
conflicts of interest to declare.

