
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jul 9;8(7). pii: E1018. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8071018.

Role of Beneficial Microorganisms and Salicylic Acid in Improving Rainfed
Agriculture and Future Food Safety.

Khan N(1), Bano A(2), Curá JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agronomy, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences,
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611, USA.
(2)Department of Biosciences, University of Wah, Wah Cantt 47040, Pakistan.
(3)Facultad de Agronomía, Departamento de Biología Aplicada y Alimentos,
Universidad de Buenos Aires, Avenida San Martín 4453, Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos
Aires C1417DSE, Argentina.

Moisture stress in rainfed areas has significant adverse impacts on plant growth 
and yield. Plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) plays an important role in
the revegetation and rehabilitation of rainfed areas by modulating plant growth
and metabolism and improving the fertility status of the rhizosphere soils. The
current study explored the positive role of PGPR and salicylic acid (SA) on the
health of the rhizosphere soil and plants grown under rainfed conditions. Maize
seeds of two different varieties, i.e., SWL-2002 (drought tolerant) and CZP-2001 
(drought sensitive), were soaked for 4 h prior to sowing in 24-h old culture of
Planomicrobium chinense strain P1 (accession no. MF616408) and Bacillus cereus
strain P2 (accession no. MF616406). The foliar spray of SA (150 mg/L) was applied
on 28-days old seedlings. The combined treatment of the consortium of PGPR and SA
not only alleviated the adverse effects of low moisture stress of soil in rainfed
area but also resulted in significant accumulation of leaf chlorophyll content
(40% and 24%), chlorophyll fluorescence (52% and 34%) and carotenoids (57% and
36%) in the shoot of both the varieties. The PGPR inoculation significantly
reduced lipid peroxidation (33% and 23%) and decreased the proline content and
antioxidant enzymes activities (32% and 38%) as compared to plants grown in
rainfed soil. Significant increases (>52%) were noted in the contents of Ca, Mg, 
K Cu, Co, Fe and Zn in the shoots of plants and rhizosphere of maize inoculated
with the PGPR consortium. The soil organic matter, total nitrogen and C/N ratio
were increased (42%), concomitant with the decrease in the bulk density of the
rhizosphere. The PGPR consortium, SA and their combined treatment significantly
enhanced the IAA (73%) and GA (70%) contents but decreased (55%) the ABA content 
of shoot. The rhizosphere of plants treated with PGPR, SA and consortium showed a
maximum accumulation (>50%) of IAA, GA and ABA contents, the sensitive variety
had much higher ABA content than the tolerant variety. It is inferred from the
results that rhizosphere soil of treated plants enriched with nutrients content, 
organic matter and greater concentration of growth promoting phytohormones, as
well as stress hormone ABA, which has better potential for seed germination and
establishment of seedlings for succeeding crops.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8071018 
PMCID: PMC7409342
PMID: 32659895 

