
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jul 22;11:1688. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01688. eCollection 
2020.

Metatranscriptomic Analysis Reveals Active Bacterial Communities in Diabetic Foot
Infections.

Heravi FS(1), Zakrzewski M(2), Vickery K(1), Malone M(3)(4)(5), Hu H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Surgical Infection Research Group, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences,
Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(2)QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(3)Infectious Diseases and Microbiology, School of Medicine, Western Sydney
University, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(4)Liverpool Hospital, South Western Sydney LHD, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(5)Liverpool Diabetes Collaborative Research Unit, Ingham Institute for Applied
Medical Research, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Despite the extended view of the composition of diabetic foot infections (DFIs), 
little is known about which transcriptionally active bacterial communities are
pertinent to infection, and if any differences are associated with increased
infection severity. We applied a RNA sequencing approach to analyze the
composition, function, and pathogenicity of the active bacterial communities in
DFIs. Taxonomic profiling of bacterial transcripts revealed the presence of 14
bacterial phyla in DFIs. The abundance of the Spiroplasma, Vibrio, and Mycoplasma
were significantly different in different infection severities (P < 0.05). Mild
and severe stages of infections were dominated by Staphylococcus aureus and
Porphyromonas asaccharolytica, respectively. A total of 132 metabolic pathways
were identified of which ribosome and thiamin being among the most highly
transcribed pathways. Moreover, a total of 131 antibiotic resistance genes,
primarily involved in the multidrug efflux pumps/exporters, were identified.
Furthermore, iron acquisition systems (synthesize and regulation of siderophores)
and pathways involved in the synthesis and regulation of cell-surface components 
associated with adhesion, colonization, and movement of bacterial cells were the 
most common virulence factors. These virulence factors may help bacteria compete 
for scares resources and survive the host wound proteases. Characterization of
transcriptionally active bacterial communities can help to provide an
understanding of the role of key pathogens in the development of DFIs. Such
information can be clinically useful allowing replacement of DFIs empirical
therapy with targeted treatment.

Copyright Â© 2020 Heravi, Zakrzewski, Vickery, Malone and Hu.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01688 
PMCID: PMC7387423
PMID: 32793159 

