
1. J Community Hosp Intern Med Perspect. 2020 Mar 3;10(2):162-165. doi:
10.1080/20009666.2020.1742494.

Renal and perinephric abscesses involving Lactobacillus jensenii and Prevotella
bivia in a young woman following ureteral stent procedure.

Mohan A(1), Rubin J(2), Chauhan P(1), Ramirez JL(1), Giese G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine Residency Program, Memorial Healthcare System, Hollywood,
FL, USA.
(2)Charles E. Schmidt College of Medicine, Florida Atlantic University, Boca
Raton, FL, USA.

 is a gram-positive bacillus in the female genital tract believed to be a
commensal organism that inhibits the growth of more virulent
pathogens. Prevotella bivia is a gram-negative bacillus species also typically
commensal in the female genital tract. Lactobacillus as the primary causative
agent in perinephric abscesses and bacteremia has been documented, albeit very
uncommon and opportunistic. Prevotella bivia is not classically associated with
perinephric abscesses but has been implicated in rare cases of pelvic
inflammatory disease and tubo-ovarian abscesses. In this report, we present a
26-year-old immunocompetent woman with a recent history of nephrolithiasis
treated with lithotripsy, ureteral stent placement and removal, and antibiotics
who was admitted for fever and severe right flank pain. Imaging showed a
right-sided renal and perinephric abscesses colonized by Lactobacillus
jensenii and Prevotella bivia. Blood cultures were also positive for
Lactobacillus species. Per literature review, intravenous ceftriaxone and
metronidazole were administered with successful resolution of abscesses and
negative repeat blood cultures. To our knowledge, this is the first case of
simultaneous renal system abscesses caused by Lactobacillus and Prevotella
species. Nephrolithiasis and prior antibiotics likely contributed to the
opportunistic pathogenesis in this otherwise immunocompetent patient.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &
Francis Group on behalf of Greater Baltimore Medical Center.

DOI: 10.1080/20009666.2020.1742494 
PMCID: PMC7425617
PMID: 32850056 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported by
the authors.

