
1. Braz Dent J. 2020 Sep 4;31(4):380-384. doi: 10.1590/0103-6440202003385.

Comparative Analysis of Biofilm Formation on Materials Used for the Fabrication
of Implant-Supported Prostheses.

Sadid-Zadeh R(1), Willis J(2), Forgo G(2), Haraszthy V(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Restorative Dentistry, University at Buffalo School of Dental
Medicine, Buffalo, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Prosthodontics, University at Buffalo School of Dental Medicine,
Buffalo, NY,USA.

The purpose of this study was to compare biofilm formation on materials used for 
the fabrication of implant-supported dental prostheses. Twenty discs (D=15 mm,
H=3 mm) were fabricated from one of the following restorative materials: yttria
tetragonal zirconia polycrystal (Y-TZP); commercially pure titanium (CP-Ti); or
heat-cured polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA). Specimens were polished following
standard protocols. A non-contact profilometer (NPFLEX, Bruker, UK) was used to
assess the surface roughness of each disk; results were reported as Ra (µm). Five
strains of Gram-negative bacteria frequently associated with peri-implantitis,
Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans, Candida. albicans, Porphyromonas
gingivalis, Prevotella intermedia, and Tannerella forsythia, were cultured on
hand-polished discs fabricated from heat-cured PMMA, Y-TZP, or CP-Ti to compare
biofilm formation on each type of material. The results were reported as
colony-forming units per milliliter (CFU/mL). One-way ANOVA and post hoc tests
were used to compare surface roughness and bacterial colonization on the
respective materials. Statistical significance was set at a = 0.05. Discs
fabricated from Y-TZP had a significantly higher Ra value (350 ± 30 µm) than
either PMMA, or CP-Ti discs. Discs fabricated from either Y-TZP and CP-Ti may
exhibit less colonization by bacteria associated with peri-mucositis and
peri-implantitis. Y-TZP and CP-Ti are suggested materials for fabrication of
implant-supported prostheses, considering biofilm formation.

DOI: 10.1590/0103-6440202003385 
PMID: 32901713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

