
1. J Indian Soc Periodontol. 2020 Mar-Apr;24(2):104-108. doi:
10.4103/jisp.jisp_303_19. Epub 2020 Jan 27.

Early and accurate detection of bacterial isolates from dental plaque in subjects
with primary, mixed, and permanent dentition by matrix-assisted laser
desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry technique.

Srivastava A(1), Saha S(1), Sahu C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontology and Implantology, Sardar Patel Post Graduate
Institute of Dental and Medical Sciences, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical
Sciences, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.

Background: Bacterial colonization of dentition in different age groups can
impact prognosis in different dental diseases. Latest diagnostic technique such
as matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry
(MALDI-TOF) is increasingly being used for accurate identification of bacteria.
This study was undertaken to evaluate the MALDI-TOF MS technique to identify
bacterial pathogens from dental plaques in subjects with primary, mixed, and
permanent dentition.
Materials and Methods: The study included 150 subjects of different age groups
and were divided into three groups - Group A: Subjects with primary dentition (n 
= 50), Group B: Subjects with mixed dentition (n = 50), and Group C: Subjects
with permanent dentition (n = 50). Subgingival dental plaque samples were
collected from buccal and lingual surfaces of premolar and molar teeth. Clinical 
parameters such as gingival index were recorded. Samples were cultured in routine
aerobic and anaerobic medium. Bacterial growths were assessed by semiquantitative
methods. Bacterial isolates were confirmed by MALDI-TOF MS technique.
Results: MALDI-TOF MS detected all the culture-grown bacteria. In primary
dentition group, purple and yellow complex bacteria predominated. Streptococcus
spp. was the predominant bacteria (51%) followed by Escherichia coli (19%) and
Veillonella spp. (19%). In mixed dentition and permanent group also,
Streptococcus spp. was predominant (46%) followed by Veillonella spp. (24%) and
E. coli(19%). However, in both groups, orange complex bacteria (bridge complex)
such as Prevotella nigrescens and red complex bacteria (Porphyromonas gingivalis,
3%) were seen. For majority of bacteria, the load increased with age.
Conclusions: The bacterial isolates showed a distinct age-specific colonization. 
The use of advanced technique such as MALDI-TOF MS is helpful in the detection of
periodontal pathogens, and the effective oral health programs can be implemented 
to minimize the risk of periodontal diseases.

Copyright: Â© 2020 Journal of Indian Society of Periodontology.

DOI: 10.4103/jisp.jisp_303_19 
PMCID: PMC7069104
PMID: 32189836 

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.

