
1. Photobiomodul Photomed Laser Surg. 2020 Aug 31. doi: 10.1089/photob.2020.4818.
[Epub ahead of print]

Clinical Evaluation of Diode (980 nm) Laser-Assisted Nonsurgical Periodontal
Pocket Therapy: A Randomized Comparative Clinical Trial and Bacteriological
Study.

Nammour S(1), El Mobadder M(1), Maalouf E(2), Namour M(1), Namour A(1), Rey G(3),
Matamba P(1), Matys J(4), Zeinoun T(2), Grzech-Leśniak K(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dental Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Liege,
Liege, Belgium.
(2)Faculty of Dentistry, Lebanese University, Beirut, Lebanon.
(3)Service formation continue Universités Paris 7 Garancière et Montpellier UFR, 
Agde, France.
(4)Laser Laboratory, Department of Dental Surgery, Wroclaw Medical University,
Wroclaw, Poland.
(5)Department of Periodontics, School of Dentistry, Virginia Commonwealth
University, Richmond, Virginia, USA.

Background: Mechanical debridement is the gold standard in the periodontitis
therapy. However, it is suggested that adjunctive use of lasers can result in a
more effective treatment outcome. Objective: Evaluate the efficiency of diode
laser-assisted nonsurgical therapy of periodontitis as adjunctive to scaling and 
root planing (SRP). Methods: One hundred sixty vertical bone defects [pocket
depth (PD) at baseline ≥6 mm] had been randomly allocated to receive SRP alone
(group C) or SRP coupled to a diode laser (980 nm) protocol (group C+L): SRP,
irrigation with hydrogen peroxide solution (3%), de-epithelization of the
internal and external gingiva followed by blood stabilization, and coagulation by
laser beam were made. Beam parameters: 10 μsec/pulse duration, 10 kHz, pick power
of 10 W, average power of 1 W, and fiber diameter of 400 μm. Plaque index (PI),
bleeding on probing, gingival recession (GR), clinical attachment level (CAL),
and PD were measured at baseline, at 6 weeks, 12 weeks, 18 weeks, 6 months, and
12 months. Microbiological data were collected randomly from 26 pockets from both
groups at baseline, 6 weeks, 12 weeks, and 6 months after treatment. Results: At 
all periods of follow-up, there was a significant difference between both groups 
in all clinical parameters except in GR. In group C+L, 76% of pockets had PD
≤3 mm after 12 months of follow-up and an average of PD = 1.77 ± 0.46 mm, while
56% of pockets in group control (C) had an average of PD = 5.00 ± 0.83 mm after
12 months of follow-up. Total bacteria count in group C + L was significantly
lower compared to group C only at 12 weeks and 6 months of follow-up.
Furthermore, there was high significant decrease in the number of Aggregatibacter
actinomycetemcomitans, Porphyromonas gingivalis, Tannerella forsythia, and
Prevotella intermedia at all the follow-up periods. Conclusions: As adjunctive to
SRP, diode laser-assisted nonsurgical therapy of periodontitis has significantly 
improved clinical parameters of PI and POB and has significantly reduced the
clinical attachment loss (CAL) and PD compared to the control group after 1 year 
of follow-up. A significant reduction in periodontal pathogens has been observed 
in group C + L only at 12 weeks and 6 months of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1089/photob.2020.4818 
PMID: 32865464 

