
1. FEBS J. 2020 Aug 8. doi: 10.1111/febs.15511. [Epub ahead of print]

An alternative pentose phosphate pathway in human gut bacteria for the
degradation of C5 sugars in dietary fibers.

Garschagen LS(1), Franke T(1), Deppenmeier U(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Microbiology and Biotechnology, University of Bonn, Bonn,
Germany.

The microbial degradation of pentoses in the human gut is a crucial factor for
the utilization of plant-based dietary fibers. A vast majority of gut microbes
are able to use these C5-sugars as a carbon and energy source. However, the
underlying metabolic pathways are not fully understood. Bioinformatic analysis
showed that a large number of abundant gut bacteria lack genes encoding a
transaldolase as a key enzyme of the pentose phosphate pathway. Among them was
the important human gut microbe Prevotella copri, which was able to grow in
minimal media containing xylose or hemicelluloses as the sole carbon source.
Therefore, we looked for an alternative pathway for pentose conversion in
P. copri using bioinformatics, enzyme activity assays, and the detection of
intermediates of pentose metabolism. It became evident that the organism
converted C5-sugars via the sedoheptulose-1,7-bisphosphate pathway (SBPP) to
connect pentose metabolism with glycolysis. To circumvent the transaldolase
reaction, P. copri uses the combined catalysis of a pyrophosphate-dependent
phosphofructokinase and a fructose-bisphosphate aldolase. Furthermore, we present
strong evidence that the SBPP is widely distributed in important gut bacteria,
including members of the phyla Bacteroides, Firmicutes, Proteobacteria,
Verrucomicrobia, and Lentisphaerae.

© 2020 The Authors. The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf
of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.

DOI: 10.1111/febs.15511 
PMID: 32770699 

