
1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2020 Aug 11. doi:
10.1007/s00210-020-01958-3. [Epub ahead of print]

Effect of nifedipine, a calcium channel blocker, on the generation of nitric
oxide and interleukin-1β by murine macrophages activated by lipopolysaccharide
from Prevotella intermedia.

Choe SH(1), Choi EY(1), Hyeon JY(1), Keum BR(1), Choi IS(1), Kim SJ(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science, College of Medical and Life Sciences, Silla 
University, 140 Baegyang-daero, 700beon-gil, Sasang-gu, Busan, 617-736, Korea.
(2)Department of Periodontology, School of Dentistry, Pusan National University, 
49 Busandaehak-ro, Mulgeum-eup, Yangsan, Gyeongsangnam-do, 626-870, Korea.
sungjokim@pusan.ac.kr.
(3)Dental Research Institute, Pusan National University Dental Hospital, Yangsan,
Gyeongsangnam-do, Korea. sungjokim@pusan.ac.kr.
(4)Dental and Life Science Institute, Pusan National University, Yangsan,
Gyeongsangnam-do, Korea. sungjokim@pusan.ac.kr.

Nifedipine, a calcium channel blocker, has been reported to possess
anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effects. The current study was undertaken
to explore the influence of nifedipine on the generation of proinflammatory
mediators by murine macrophages activated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) prepared
from Prevotella intermedia, a putative periodontal pathogen, and associated
mechanisms of action as well. LPS was purified by employing phenol-water
extraction protocol. Culture supernatants were analyzed for nitric oxide (NO) and
interleukin (IL)-1β. Real-time PCR and immunoblotting were conducted to quantify 
mRNA and protein expression, respectively. NF-κB-dependent secreted embryonic
alkaline phosphatase (SEAP) levels were estimated by reporter assay. Nifedipine
markedly suppressed the generation of iNOS-derived NO and IL-1β together with
their mRNA expressions in murine macrophages activated by P. intermedia LPS.
LPS-stimulated cells exposed to nifedipine notably increased the mRNA levels of
Arg-1, Ym-1, FIZZ1, and TGF-β, which are typical markers for M2 macrophage
polarization. Nifedipine induced HO-1 at both gene and protein levels in cells
challenged with P. intermedia LPS, and the nifedipine-mediated inhibition of NO
generation was significantly abrogated by adding SnPP, an HO-1 inhibitor.
Nifedipine inhibited LPS-evoked generation of NO and IL-1β in a
PPAR-γ-independent manner. In addition, NF-κB activation as well as
phosphorylation of STAT1/3 induced by P. intermedia LPS was suppressed by
nifedipine. Nifedipine is an inhibitor of P. intermedia LPS-evoked production of 
NO and IL-1β in murine macrophages and encourages macrophage polarization toward 
the M2 phenotype. Nifedipine possibly has potential to be used for host
modulation of periodontal disease and is worth being further researched.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-020-01958-3 
PMID: 32780228 

