
1. Vet Anim Sci. 2019 Aug 27;8:100069. doi: 10.1016/j.vas.2019.100069. eCollection
2019 Dec.

Molecular detection of feline and canine periodontal pathogens.

Özavci V(1), Erbas G(2), Parin U(2), Yüksel HT(2), Kirkan Ş(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Yozgat Bozok
University, Yozgat, Turkey.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Aydin Adnan
Menderes University, Aydin, Turkey.

Periodontal disease is the most common infectious disease of cats and dogs which 
are strongly associated with periodontal pathogens. The primary etiologic factor 
in the formation of periodontal disease is microbial dental plaque accumulation
on teeth. In our research, we aimed to investigate the presence of periodontal
disease-related bacterial species in dental plaques of cats and dogs. Specimens
collected from 50 cats and 51 dogs with periodontal disease examined in terms of 
periodontal pathogens by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers directed
to 16S rRNA and tdpA genes. Our findings indicate the presence of periodontal
disease-related pathogens, especially Porphyromonas gingivalis (cats 96%, dogs
88%), Prevotella nigrescens (cats 90%, dogs 57%) and, Porphyromonas gulae (cats
70%, dogs 39%). In addition, the prevalence of Tannerella forthysia (cats 2%,
dogs 4%) well-known pathogen in cats and dogs were isolated with an extremely low
percentage. Furthermore, our results suggest that the feline oral cavity
microbiota has considerably more diversity than dogs. Consequently, daily oral
hygiene practices may become essential for controlling the pathogenic bacteria
which have clinical importance and in preventing the propagation of
microorganisms in the oral cavity of cats and dogs.

© 2019 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vas.2019.100069 
PMCID: PMC7386636
PMID: 32734086 

Conflict of interest statement: There is not any commercial firm played role in
the study design nor in the collection, analysis and interpretation of data, nor 
in the decision to submit the manuscript for publication. None of the authors has
any financial or personal relationships that could inappropriately influence or
bias the content of the paper.

