
1. Gut Microbes. 2020 Nov 9;12(1):1785246. doi: 10.1080/19490976.2020.1785246. Epub 
2020 Jul 30.

Dysbiosis in a canine model of human fistulizing Crohn's disease.

Maldonado-Contreras A(1), Ferrer L(2), Cawley C(1), Crain S(2), Bhattarai S(1),
Toscano J(1), Ward DV(1), Hoffman A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Physiological Systems, University of
Massachusetts Medical School , Worcester, MA, USA.
(2)Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine, Tufts University , North Grafton, MA, 
USA.

Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic immune-mediated inflammatory condition caused
by the loss of mucosal tolerance toward the commensal microbiota. On average,
29.5% and 42.7% CD patients experience perianal complications at 10 and 20Â y
after diagnosis, respectively. Perianal CD (pCD) result in high disease burden,
diminished quality of life, and elevated health-care costs. Overall pCD are
predictors of poor long-term outcomes. Animal models of gut inflammation have
failed to fully recapitulate the human manifestations of fistulizing CD. Here, we
evaluated dogs with spontaneous canine anal furunculosis (CAF), a disease with
clinical similarities to pCD, as a surrogate model for understanding the
microbial contribution of human pCD pathophysiology. By comparing the gut
microbiomes between dogs suffering from CAF (CAF dogs) and healthy dogs, we show 
CAF-dog microbiomes are either very dissimilar (dysbiotic) or similar
(healthy-like), yet unique, to healthy dog's microbiomes. Compared to healthy or 
healthy-like CAF microbiomes, dysbiotic CAF microbiomes showed an increased
abundance of Bacteroides vulgatus and Escherichia coli and a decreased abundance 
of Megamonas species and Prevotella copri. Our results mirror what have been
reported in previous microbiome studies of patients with CD; particularly, CAF
dogs exhibited two distinct microbiome composition: dysbiotic and healthy-like,
with determinant bacterial taxa such as E. coli and P. copri that overlap what it
has been found on their human counterpart. Thus, our results support the use of
CAF dogs as a surrogate model to advance our understanding of microbial dynamics 
in pCD.

DOI: 10.1080/19490976.2020.1785246 
PMID: 32730134 

