
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Aug;70(8):4576-4582. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004316.
Epub 2020 Jul 31.

Prevotella vespertina sp. nov., isolated from an abscess of a hospital patient.

Buhl M(1)(2), Marschal M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Microbiology and Hygiene, Tübingen University Hospital,
Tübingen, Germany.
(2)Present address: Institute of Medical Microbiology, Virology and Hygiene,
University Medicine Rostock, Rostock, Germany.

A strain of an obligately anaerobic, Gram-stain-negative rod-shaped bacterium is 
described by phenotypical, biochemical and genotypical characterization. This
strain A2879T was isolated from an abscess swab of a patient sampled during
routine care at hospital. Phylogenetic analyses (full-length 16S rRNA gene and
whole-genome sequence) revealed the strain to belong to the genus Prevotella, but
to be distant from recognized species, with the closest relationship to
Prevotella veroralis. Unambiguous identification also proved possible by
MALDI-TOF MS. The genomic DNA G+C content was 41.5 mol%. Strain A2879T was
moderately saccharolytic and proteolytic. The most abundant cellular long-chain
fatty acids were anteiso-C15 : 0 and iso-C15 : 0. In view of these data, strain
A2879T is considered to represent a novel species within the genus Prevotella,
for which the name Prevotella vespertina sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is
A2879T (=DSM 108027T=CCOS 1233T=CCUG72808T). As this strain has been isolated
from a clinical sample, it is considered relevant for human medicine and health
in general, and in particular for the fields of clinical microbiology and
infectious diseases. This description will enable routine and research
laboratories alike to easily identify the novel taxon, allowing its role in the
context of human health and disease or microbiota to be further elucidated.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004316 
PMID: 32735207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

