
1. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2020 May 30;40(5):759-764. doi:
10.12122/j.issn.1673-4254.2020.05.24.

[Research progress of correlation between periodontal pathogens and systemic
diseases].

[Article in Chinese]

Du Q(1)(2)(3), Ma X(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Stomatlogy, Sichuan Academy of Medical Science & Sichuan
People's Hospital, Chengdu 610072, China.
(2)School of Medicine, University of Electronic Science and Technology, Chengdu
610054, China.
(3)Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chengdu 610041,
China.
(4)School of Stomatology, Zunyi Medicial University, Zunyi 563000, China.

Periodontal pathogens are the main pathogenic factor of periodontitis.
Periodontal pathogens have a large variety of virulence factors such as
lipopolysaccharide, fimbriae and proteases, which enables the pathogens to infect
periodontal tissues and stimulate the secretion of inflammatory cytokines,
causing chronic systemic inflammation. Periodontal pathogens may invade multiple 
systems such as the circulatory system, immune system, respiratory system and
digestive system to cause systematic diseases. Recent studies have shown that
periodontal pathogens may have close relations with systemic diseases such as
cardiovascular disease, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and cancer. Among the
periodontal pathogens, Porphyromonas gingivalis can be found in atherosclerotic
plaques to impairing the function of the vascular endothelium; Porphyromonas
gingivalis may also increase the level of inflammatory factors such as TNF-Î± to
promote insulin resistance and diabetes. Many of the periodontal pathogens such
as Porphyromonas gingivalis, Tannerella forsythia and Prevotella intermedia can
be detected in the synovial fluid of rheumatoid arthritis patients, suggesting
their involvement in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis. Fusobacterium
nucleatum may cause alterations in the intestinal microbiome in mice and promote 
the occurrence of intestinal tumors. Herein we review the recent progresses in
the relationship between periodontal pathogens and systemic diseases.

DOI: 10.12122/j.issn.1673-4254.2020.05.24 
PMCID: PMC7277321
PMID: 32897213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

