
1. Nat Prod Res. 2020 Aug;34(16):2378-2383. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1536659. Epub
2018 Nov 30.

Chemical composition of essential oils from different parts of Protium
heptaphyllum (Aubl.) Marchand and their in vitro antibacterial activity.

Cabral RSC(1), Alves CCF(1), Batista HRF(1), Sousa WC(1), Abrahão IS(2), Crotti
AEM(2), Santiago MB(3), Martins CHG(3), Miranda MLD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Federal de Educação, Ciência e Tecnologia Goiano, Rio Verde, GO,
Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Química, Faculdade de Filosofia, Ciências e Letras de Ribeirão
Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(3)Núcleo de Pesquisas em Ciências Exatas e Tecnológicas, Universidade de Franca,
Franca, SP, Brazil.
(4)Instituto Federal de Educação, Ciência e Tecnologia do Triângulo Mineiro,
Uberlândia, MG, Brazil.

In Brazilian folk medicine, Protium heptaphyllum is used to treat inflammatory
conditions and to hasten wound repair. This paper aims to investigate the
chemical composition and the in vitro antibacterial effects of the essential oils
(EOs) obtained from P. heptaphyllum leaves and ripe and unripe fruits against a
representative panel of oral pathogens. The GC-FID and GC-MS analysis revealed
that the major components determined in P. heptaphyllum essential oils were
myrcene (59.0%), β-elemene (17.2%), limonene (12.9%), spathulenol (12.6%),
α-cubebene (11.6%), germacrene D (10.6%), trans-nerolidol (9.8%), and α-cadinol
(8.8%). The essential oils of the ripe and unripe fruits showed the strongest
antibacterial activity against the anaerobic bacteria Prevotella nigrescens
(MIC = 50 µg/mL). The leaf essential oil displayed very promising activity
against Streptococcus mutans (MIC = 50 µg/mL) and Streptococcus mitis
(MIC = 62.5 µg/mL). The antibacterial activity of EOs against oral pathogens is
also described for the first time. [Formula: see text].

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2018.1536659 
PMID: 30499330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

