
1. J Mech Behav Biomed Mater. 2020 Nov;111:104010. doi: 10.1016/j.jmbbm.2020.104010.
Epub 2020 Jul 25.

Influence of different ceramic materials and surface treatments on the adhesion
of Prevotella intermedia.

Poole SF(1), Pitondo-Silva A(1), Oliveira-Silva M(2), Moris ICM(1), Gomes EA(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Dentistry, University of Ribeirão Preto (UNAERP), Ribeirão Preto,
SP, Brazil.
(2)Postgraduate Program in Environmental Technology, University of Ribeirão
Preto, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(3)School of Dentistry, University of Ribeirão Preto (UNAERP), Ribeirão Preto,
SP, Brazil. Electronic address: ericaagomes@yahoo.com.br.

Ceramics are used in oral rehabilitation; however, these materials are prone to
formation of biofilms that may cause periodontal diseases. This study aimed to
evaluate the influence of distinct surface treatments on ceramic surface
roughness and biofilm formation of oral bacteria (Prevotella intermedia).
Eighty-four specimens of the following four ceramic systems were produced: LC -
leucite-based glass ceramic, LD - lithium disilicate-based glass ceramic, LSZ -
glass ceramic based on zirconia-reinforced lithium silicate, and ZR - monolithic 
zirconia. These were submitted to three different surface treatment protocols: C 
- control, G - glazing, and GDB - grinding with diamond bur (n = 7). The surface 
characteristics were assessed using a confocal laser microscope (Ra) and a
scanning electron microscope (SEM). Thereafter, the groups were contaminated with
a bacterial strain of P. intermedia ATCC 25611. The biofilms formed were
quantified by counting the colony forming units (CFUs) and analyzed with scanning
electron microscope (SEM) and confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM). Data
were analyzed by using a 2-way ANOVA and the Tukey test (ɑ = 0.05). Results
showed that greater roughness was associated with GDB (p < 0.05). The same was
also true for the ceramic material ZR (p < 0.05). There was a statistical
significant difference in the CFU counts between the materials (p < 0.05) that
revealed a greater amount of bacterial adhesion in the LC and ZR groups
(p > 0.05). Thus, it was suggested that the surface roughness of the ceramic
materials favored bacterial adhesion; and thus, finishing of ceramic surfaces
with GDB should be avoided.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmbbm.2020.104010 
PMID: 32750671 

