
1. J Infect Chemother. 2020 Sep 12. pii: S1341-321X(20)30295-6. doi:
10.1016/j.jiac.2020.08.015. [Epub ahead of print]

Update on minocycline in vitro activity against odontogenic bacteria.

Inubushi J(1), Liang K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Sunstar Inc., Japan.
(2)Sunstar Inc., Japan. Electronic address: kuangyao.liang@jp.sunstar.com.

Periodontitis, which is a chronic inflammation caused by biofilm from numerous
gram-negative and -positive oral bacterial species between gingiva and tooth, is 
known to have a poor prognosis. Susceptibility of standard strains (19 strains)
and clinical isolates (90 strains) of aerobic and anaerobic oral bacteria,
including a recently recovered as novel pathogens for periodontitis called
Filifactor alocis, was tested to minocycline (MINO) by using the agar dilution
method according to the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute. MINO is a
well-used therapeutic antibiotic for periodontits. In this study, minimum
inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of MINO against Aggregatibacter
actinomycetemcomitans (n = 1), Porphyromonas gingivalis (n = 5), Prevotella
intermedia (n = 1), Tannerella forsythia (n = 1) and F. alocis (n = 1), were
0.12, ≤0.016-0.03, ≤0.016, 0.03, and 2 μg/mL, respectively. MICs range of MINO
against clinical isolates (10 isolates each) Streptococcus intermedius,
P. gingivalis, P. intermedia, Fusobacterum nucleatum, Parvimonas micra were
0.06-16, ≤0.016-0.03, ≤0.016-1, ≤0.016-0.12, and ≤0.016-0.25 μg/mL, respectively.
These results showed that MINO has superior in vitro activities against to known 
and recent recovered oral bacteria. Moreover, low prevalence in non-susceptible
bacteria was observed to MINO.

Copyright © 2020 Japanese Society of Chemotherapy and The Japanese Association
for Infectious Diseases. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jiac.2020.08.015 
PMID: 32933859 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest This study was 
designed and funded by Sunstar Inc.

