
1. Front Immunol. 2020 Jun 3;11:1108. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.01108. eCollection
2020.

Infectious Triggers in Periodontitis and the Gut in Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA): A 
Complex Story About Association and Causality.

Möller B(1), Kollert F(1), Sculean A(2), Villiger PM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department for Rheumatology, Immunology and Allergology,
Inselspital-University Hospital of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Periodontology, School of Dental Medicine, University of Bern,
Bern, Switzerland.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic immune mediated inflammatory disease of
unknown origin, which is predominantly affecting the joints. Antibodies against
citrullinated peptides are a rather specific immunological hallmark of this
heterogeneous entity. Furthermore, certain sequences of the third hypervariable
region of human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR class II major histocompatibility
(MHC) molecules, the so called "shared epitope" sequences, appear to promote
autoantibody positive types of RA. However, MHC-II molecule and other genetic
associations with RA could not be linked to immune responses against specific
citrullinated peptides, nor do genetic factors fully explain the origin of RA.
Consequently, non-genetic factors must play an important role in the complex
interaction of endogenous and exogenous disease factors. Tobacco smoking was the 
first environmental factor that was associated with onset and severity of RA.
Notably, smoking is also an established risk factor for oral diseases.
Furthermore, smoking is associated with extra-articular RA manifestations such as
interstitial lung disease in anatomical proximity to the airway mucosa, but also 
with subcutaneous rheumatoid nodules. In the mouth, Porphyromonas gingivalis is a
periodontal pathogen with unique citrullinating capacity of foreign microbial
antigens as well as candidate RA autoantigens. Although the original hypothesis
that this single pathogen is causative for RA remained unproven, epidemiological 
as well as experimental evidence linking periodontitis (PD) with RA is rapidly
accumulating. Other periopathogens such as Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans 
and Prevotella intermedia were also proposed to play a specific immunodominant
role in context of RA. However, demonstration of T cell reactivity against
citrullinated, MHC-II presented autoantigens from RA synovium coinciding with
immunity against Prevotella copri (Pc.), a gut microbe attracted attention to
another mucosal site, the intestine. Pc. was accumulated in the feces of
clinically healthy subjects with citrulline directed immune responses and was
correlated with RA onset. In conclusion, we retrieved more than one line of
evidence for mucosal sites and different microbial taxa to be potentially
involved in the development of RA. This review gives an overview of infectious
agents and mucosal pathologies, and discusses the current evidence for causality 
between different exogenous or mucosal factors and systemic inflammation in RA.

Copyright © 2020 Möller, Kollert, Sculean and Villiger.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.01108 
PMCID: PMC7283532
PMID: 32582191 

