
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jun 30;11:1368. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01368. eCollection 
2020.

Identification and Characterization of Planktonic Biofilm-Like Aggregates in
Infected Synovial Fluids From Joint Infections.

Bidossi A(1), Bottagisio M(1), Savadori P(2), De Vecchi E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Clinical Chemistry and Microbiology, IRCCS Istituto Ortopedico
Galeazzi, Milan, Italy.
(2)Department of Endodontics, IRCCS Istituto Ortopedico Galeazzi, Milan, Italy.

Recent in vitro studies reported the exceptional ability of some bacterial
species to form biofilm-like aggregates in human and animal synovial fluids (SF),
but evidences from infected clinical samples are still lacking. In this study, we
investigated whether this bacterial phenotype was present in infected SFs
collected from joint infections and if it was maintained in in vitro settings.
SFs sent for culture to the Laboratory of Microbiology of our institute were
directly analyzed by means of confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM), and the 
infective agents were isolated for further in vitro tests. Moreover, sterile SF
was collected from patients who did not receive previous antibiotic therapy to
investigate the formation of bacterial aggregates, together with biofilm and
matrix production on a titanium surface. Finally, antibiotic susceptibility
studies were performed by using bovine SF. Four Staphylococcus aureus, one
Staphylococcus lugdunensis, and one Prevotella bivia strain were identified in
the infected SFs. The CLSM analysis showed that all staphylococci were present as
a mixture of single cells and bacterial clumps surrounded by an exopolymeric
substance, which comprised SF-derived fibrin, while all P. bivia cells appeared
separated. Despite that, differences in the ability to aggregate between S.
aureus and S. lugdunensis were observed in clinical SFs. These different
phenotypes were further confirmed by in vitro growth, even though the application
of such ex vivo approach lead all staphylococci to form exceptionally large
microbial aggregates, which are several folds bigger than those observed in
clinical samples. Planktonic aggregates challenged for antibiotic susceptibility 
revealed a sharp increase of recalcitrance to the treatments. Although this is
still at a preliminary stage, the present work confirmed the ability of
staphylococci to form free-floating biofilm-like aggregates in infected SF from
patients with joint infections. Furthermore, the obtained results pointed out
that future in vitro research on joint infections will benefit from the use of
human- or animal-derived SF. Even though this approach should be carefully
validated in further studies comprising a larger microbial population, these
findings pose new challenges in the treatment of infected native and prosthetic
joints and for the approach to new investigations.

Copyright Â© 2020 Bidossi, Bottagisio, Savadori and De Vecchi.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01368 
PMCID: PMC7344156
PMID: 32714301 

