
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Aug 11. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-02011-w. [Epub ahead of
print]

Dysbiosis of salivary microbiome and cytokines influence oral squamous cell
carcinoma through inflammation.

Rai AK(1), Panda M(2), Das AK(1), Rahman T(1), Das R(1), Das K(1), Sarma A(1),
Kataki AC(1), Chattopadhyay I(3).

Author information: 
(1)Dr. B. Borooah Cancer Institute, A. K. Azad Road, Gopinath Nagar, Guwahati,
Assam, 16, India.
(2)Department of Life Sciences, School of Life Sciences, Central University of
Tamil Nadu, Thiruvarur, 610101, India.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, School of Life Sciences, Central University of
Tamil Nadu, Thiruvarur, 610101, India. indranil@cutn.ac.in.

Advanced combinatorial treatments of surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy do
not have any effect on the enhancement of a 5-year survival rate of oral squamous
cell carcinoma (OSCC). The discovery of early diagnostic non-invasive biomarkers 
is required to improve the survival rate of OSCC patients. Recently, it has been 
reported that oral microbiome has a significant contribution to the development
of OSCC. Oral microbiome induces inflammatory response through the production of 
cytokines and chemokines that enhances tumor cell proliferation and survival. The
study aims to develop saliva-based oral microbiome and cytokine biomarker panel
that screen OSCC patients based on the level of the microbiome and cytokine
differences. We compared the oral microbiome signatures and cytokine level in the
saliva of OSCC patients and healthy individuals by 16S rRNA gene sequencing
targeting the V3/V4 region using the MiSeq platform and cytokine assay,
respectively. The higher abundance of Prevotella melaninogenica, Fusobacterium
sp., Veillonella parvula, Porphyromonas endodontalis, Prevotella pallens,
Dialister, Streptococcus anginosus, Prevotella nigrescens, Campylobacter
ureolyticus, Prevotella nanceiensis, Peptostreptococcus anaerobius and
significant elevation of IL-8, IL-6, TNF-α, GM-CSF, and IFN-γ in the saliva of
patients having OSCC. Oncobacteria such as S. anginosus, V. parvula, P.
endodontalis, and P. anaerobius may contribute to the development of OSCC by
increasing inflammation via increased expression of inflammatory cytokines such
as IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α, IFN-γ, and GM-CSF. These oncobacteria and cytokines panels 
could potentially be used as a non-invasive biomarker in clinical practice for
more efficient screening and early detection of OSCC patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-02011-w 
PMID: 32783067 

