
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Aug 13;11:1564. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01564. eCollection 
2020.

Transcriptomics and Proteomics Analyses of the Responses of Propionibacterium
acidipropionici to Metabolic and Evolutionary Manipulation.

Liu T(1)(2), Zhao Q(1), Li Y(1), Zhu L(3), Jiang L(2), Huang H(4).

Author information: 
(1)College of Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Engineering, Nanjing Tech
University, Nanjing, China.
(2)College of Food Science and Light Industry, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing, 
China.
(3)College of Chemical and Molecular Engineering, Nanjing Tech University,
Nanjing, China.
(4)College of Pharmaceutical Science, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing, China.

We first performed a combination of metabolic engineering (deletion of ldh and
poxB and overexpression of mmc) with evolutionary engineering (selection under
oxygen stress, acid stress and osmotic stress) in Propionibacterium
acidipropionici. The results indicated that the mutants had superior
physiological activity, especially the mutant III obtained from P.
acidipropionici-Δldh-ΔpoxB+mmc by evolutionary engineering, with 1.5-3.5 times
higher growth rates, as well as a 37.1% increase of propionic acid (PA) titer and
a 37.8% increase PA productivity compared to the wild type. Moreover, the
integrative transcriptomics and proteomics analyses revealed that the
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and proteins (DEPs) in the mutant III were 
involved in energy metabolism, including the glycolysis pathway and tricarboxylic
acid cycle (TCA cycle). These genes were up-regulated to supply increased amounts
of energy and precursors for PA synthesis compared to the wild type. In addition,
the down-regulation of fatty acid biosynthesis and fatty acid metabolism may
indicate that the repressed metabolic flux was related to the production of PA.
Quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was
performed to verify the differential expression levels of 16 selected key genes. 
The results offer deep insights into the mechanism of high PA production, which
provides the theoretical foundation for the construction of advanced microbial
cell factories.

Copyright © 2020 Liu, Zhao, Li, Zhu, Jiang and Huang.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01564 
PMCID: PMC7438477
PMID: 32903527 

