
1. Case Rep Infect Dis. 2020 Jul 25;2020:8883907. doi: 10.1155/2020/8883907.
eCollection 2020.

Persistent Cutibacterium (Formerly Propionibacterium) acnes Bacteremia and
Refractory Endocarditis in a Patient with Retained Implantable Pacemaker Leads.

Freedman M(1), Aflatooni JO(1), Foster R(1), Haggerty PG(1), Derber CJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease, Eastern Virginia Medical
School, 825 Fairfax Avenue, Suite 461 Hofheimer Hall, Norfolk, VA 23507, USA.

Cutibacterium (formerly Propionibacterium) acnes (C. acnes) is a commensal
bacteria commonly found on the human skin and in the mouth. While the virulence
of C. acnes is low in humans, it does produce a biofilm and has been identified
as an etiologic agent in a growing number of implant-associated infections. C.
acnes infections can prove diagnostically challenging as laboratory cultures can 
often take greater than 5 days to yield positive results, which are then often
disregarded as contaminant. Patients with recurrent bacteremia in the setting of 
implantable devices warrant further studies to evaluate for an associated
valvular or lead endocarditis. The patient in this report demonstrates how
cardiac device-related endocarditis secondary to C. acnes can be overlooked due
to the indolent nature of this pathogen. This patient presented with an implanted
cardiac pacemaker device, as well as retained leads from a prior pacemaker.
Transesophageal echocardiography was required to confirm the diagnosis in the
setting of multiple positive blood cultures and negative transthoracic
echocardiograms over a period of 4 years. The purpose of this report is to
highlight the difficulties encountered in diagnosing C. acnes endocarditis in a
patient with a cardiac implantable electronic device and persistently positive
blood cultures.

Copyright Â© 2020 M. Freedman et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/8883907 
PMCID: PMC7399732
PMID: 32774952 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

