
1. Oncotarget. 2019 Dec 31;10(68):7198-7219. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.27319.
eCollection 2019 Dec 31.

Probiotic Propionibacterium freudenreichii requires SlpB protein to mitigate
mucositis induced by chemotherapy.

do Carmo FLR(1)(2), Rabah H(2)(3), Cordeiro BF(1), da Silva SH(1), Pessoa RM(4), 
Fernandes SOA(4), Cardoso VN(4), Gagnaire V(2), Deplanche M(2), Savassi B(1),
Figueiroa A(1), Oliveira ER(1), Fonseca CC(1), Queiroz MIA(1), Rodrigues NM(1),
Sandes SHC(1), Nunes ÁC(1), Lemos L(1), Alves JL(1), Faria AMC(1), Ferreira Ê(1),
Le Loir Y(2), Jan G(2), Azevedo V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (UFMG),
Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brasil.
(2)STLO, INRA, Agrocampus Ouest, UMR1253, Science & Technologie du Lait & de
l'Oeuf, Rennes, France.
(3)Bba, Pôle Agronomique Ouest, Régions Bretagne et Pays de la Loire, Rennes,
France.
(4)Department of Clinical and Toxicological Analysis, Federal University of Minas
Gerais (UFMG), Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.

Propionibacterium freudenreichii CIRM-BIA 129 (P. freudenreichii wild type, WT)
is a probiotic bacterium, which exerts immunomodulatory effects. This strain
possesses extractable surface proteins, including SlpB, which are involved in
anti-inflammatory effect and in adhesion to epithelial cells. We decided to
investigate the impact of slpB gene mutation on immunomodulation in vitro and in 
vivo. In an in vitro assay, P. freudenreichii WT reduced expression of IL-8
(p<0.0001) and TNF-α (p<0.0001) cytokines in LPS-stimulated HT-29 cells. P.
freudenreichii ΔslpB, lacking the SlpB protein, failed to do so. Subsequently,
both strains were investigated in vivo in a 5-FU-induced mucositis mice model.
Mucositis is a common side effect of cytotoxic chemotherapy with 5-FU,
characterized by mucosal injury, inflammation, diarrhea, and weight loss. The WT 
strain prevented weight loss, reduced inflammation and consequently
histopathological scores. Furthermore, it regulated key markers, including
Claudin-1 (cld1, p<0.0005) and IL-17a (Il17a, p<0.0001) genes, as well as IL-12
(p<0.0001) and IL-1β (p<0.0429) cytokines levels. Mutant strain displayed
opposite regulatory effect on cld1 expression and on IL-12 levels. This work
emphasizes the importance of SlpB in P. freudenreichii ability to reduce
mucositis inflammation. It opens perspectives for the development of probiotic
products to decrease side effects of chemotherapy using GRAS bacteria with
immunomodulatory surface protein properties.

Copyright: © 2019 do Carmo et al.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.27319 
PMCID: PMC6944450
PMID: 31921383 

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare that
the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest. We
declare no competing interest, no conflict of interest, neither financial, nor
non-financial.

