
1. Prep Biochem Biotechnol. 2020;50(8):763-767. doi: 10.1080/10826068.2020.1734942. 
Epub 2020 Mar 5.

Simultaneous production of propionic acid and vitamin B12 from corn stalk
hydrolysates by Propionibacterium freudenreichii in an expanded bed adsorption
bioreactor.

Wang P(1)(2)(3), Shen C(2), Li L(1), Guo J(1), Cong Q(1), Lu J(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Chemical & Pharmaceutical Engineering, Hebei University of Science 
& Technology, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory Breeding Base, Hebei Province Key Laboratory of Molecular
Chemistry for Drug, Hebei University of Science & Technology, Shijiazhuang,
Hebei, China.
(3)Hebei Province Pharmaceutical Chemical Engineering Technology Research Center,
Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.

Vitamin B12 and propionic acid that were simultaneous produced by
Propionibacterium freudenreichii are both favorable chemicals widely used in food
preservatives, medicine, and nutrition. While the carbon source and propionic
acid accumulation reflected fermentation efficiency. In this study, using corn
stalk as a carbon source and fed-batch fermentation process in an expanded bed
adsorption bioreactor was studied for efficient and economic biosynthesis of acid
vitamin B12 and propionic. With liquid hot water pretreated corn stalk
hydrolysates as carbon source, 28.65 mg L-1 of vitamin B12 and 17.05 g L-1 of
propionic acid were attained at 168 h in batch fermentation. In order to optimize
the fermentation outcomes, fed-batch fermentation was performed with hydrolyzed
corn stalk in expanded bed adsorption bioreactor (EBAB), giving 47.6 mg L-1
vitamin B12 and 91.4 g L-1 of propionic acid at 258 h, which correspond to
product yields of 0.37 mg g-1 and 0.75 g g-1, respectively. The present study
provided a promising strategy for economically sustainable production of vitamin 
B12 and propionic acid by P. freudenreichii fermentation using biomass cornstalk 
as carbon source and expanded bed adsorption bioreactor.

DOI: 10.1080/10826068.2020.1734942 
PMID: 32134358 

