
1. J Clin Med. 2020 Jan 8;9(1). pii: E168. doi: 10.3390/jcm9010168.

Characterization and Analysis of the Skin Microbiota in Acne: Impact of Systemic 
Antibiotics.

Park SY(1), Kim HS(1)(2), Lee SH(2), Kim S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedicine & Health Sciences, The Catholic University of Korea,
222 Banpo-daero, Seocho-gu, Seoul 06591, Korea.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Incheon St. Mary's Hospital, The Catholic
University of Korea, Seoul 06591, Korea.

Systemic antibiotics are extensively used to control moderate to severe acne.
Hence, it is crucial to understand their impact on the skin microbiota, which is 
supposedly perturbed. The purpose of this study was to compare the makeup and
diversity of the skin microbiota in acne patients before and after taking oral
antibiotics. A longitudinal cohort study was performed on 20 participants with
moderate to severe facial acne with no recent use of oral and topical
antibiotics/retinoids. Patients were prescribed oral doxycycline, 100 mg, twice
daily for six weeks. Skin areas on the cheek were sampled for 16S ribosomal RNA
gene sequencing at baseline, and after six weeks of doxycycline treatment. Ten
males and 10 females aged 11 to 44 years with a median Investigator's Global
Assessment score of 3 (moderate) were enrolled. At baseline, Cutibacterium acnes 
(formerly Propionibacterium acnes) was the most dominant species followed by
Staphylococcus epidermidis. Acne severity showed a positive correlation with the 
abundance of Cutibacterium acnes. Across all subjects, antibiotic treatment
reduced clinical acne grades and was associated with a 1.96-fold reduction in the
relative abundance of Cutibacterium acnes (p = 0.01, 95% CI -22% to -3%). Marked 
changes were also identified in other bacterial species, such as Cutibacterium
granulosum (formerly Propionibacterium granulosum), which increased by 4.46-fold 
(p = 0.02, 95% CI 0.004% to 0.9%) in the treated samples. In general, antibiotics
administration was associated with an increase in bacterial diversity (alpha
diversity). Principal coordinates analysis showed mild clustering of samples by
patient (analysis of similarity, R = 0.135, p = 0.04) whereas there was scant
clustering with treatment (ANOSIM, R = 0.005; p = 0.29). In conclusion, we found 
individuals with acne to have a unique microbial signature. Acne treatment with
systemic antibiotics was associated with changes in the composition and diversity
of skin microbiota, especially Cutibacterium acnes, which correlates with acne
severity. Our study provides insight into the skin microbiota in acne and how it 
is modulated by systemic antibiotics.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm9010168 
PMCID: PMC7019264
PMID: 31936262 

