
1. mSphere. 2020 Jan 15;5(1). pii: e00793-19. doi: 10.1128/mSphere.00793-19.

Porphyrin Production and Regulation in Cutaneous Propionibacteria.

Barnard E(#)(1), Johnson T(#)(1), Ngo T(1), Arora U(1), Leuterio G(1), McDowell
A(2), Li H(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology, Crump Institute for
Molecular Imaging, David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA, Los Angeles,
California, USA.
(2)Northern Ireland Centre for Stratified Medicine, Ulster University,
Londonderry, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology, Crump Institute for
Molecular Imaging, David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA, Los Angeles,
California, USA huiying@ucla.edu.
(4)UCLA-DOE Institute for Genomics and Proteomics, UCLA, Los Angeles, California,
USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Porphyrins are intermediate metabolites in the biosynthesis of vital molecules,
including heme, cobalamin, and chlorophyll. Bacterial porphyrins are known to be 
proinflammatory, with high levels linked to inflammatory skin diseases.
Propionibacterium species are dominant skin commensals and play essential roles
in defending against pathogens and in triggering an inflammatory response. To
better understand how the inflammatory potential of the skin microbiome may vary 
depending on its propionibacterial composition, we compared the production levels
of porphyrins among Propionibacterium acnes, Propionibacterium granulosum,
Propionibacterium avidum, and Propionibacterium humerusii strains. We found that 
porphyrin production varied among these species, with P. acnes type I strains
producing significantly larger amounts of porphyrins than P. acnes type II and
III strains and other Propionibacterium species. P. acnes strains that are highly
associated with the common skin condition acne vulgaris responded to vitamin B12 
supplementation with significantly higher porphyrin production. In contrast,
vitamin B12 supplementation had no effect on the porphyrin production of
health-associated P. acnes strains and other propionibacteria. We observed
low-level porphyrin production in most Propionibacterium strains harboring the
deoR repressor gene, with the exception of P. acnes strains belonging to type I
clades IB-3 and IC. Our findings shed light on the proinflammatory potential of
distinct phylogenetic lineages of P. acnes as well as other resident skin
propionibacteria. We demonstrate that the overall species and strain composition 
is important in determining the metabolic output of the skin microbiome in health
and disease.IMPORTANCE Porphyrins are a group of metabolites essential to the
biosynthesis of heme, cobalamin, and chlorophyll in living organisms. Bacterial
porphyrins can be proinflammatory, with high levels linked to human inflammatory 
diseases, including the common skin condition acne vulgaris. Propionibacteria are
among the most abundant skin bacteria. Variations in propionibacteria composition
on the skin may lead to different porphyrin levels and inflammatory potentials.
This study characterized porphyrin production in all lineages of
Propionibacterium acnes, the most dominant skin Propionibacterium, and other
resident skin propionibacteria, including P. granulosum, P. avidum, and P.
humerusii We revealed that P. acnes type I strains produced significantly more
porphyrins than did type II and III strains and other Propionibacterium species. 
The findings from this study shed light on the proinflammatory potential of the
skin microbiome and can be used to guide the development of effective acne
treatments by modulating the skin microbiome and its metabolic activities.

Copyright Â© 2020 Barnard et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSphere.00793-19 
PMCID: PMC6968654
PMID: 31941813 

