
1. Anaerobe. 2020 Apr;62:102166. doi: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2020.102166. Epub 2020 Jan 
25.

A rare case of bacteremia caused by Propionibacterium (Propionimicrobium)
lymphophilum.

Cobo F(1), Gómez E(2), Rodríguez-Granger J(2), Sampedro A(2), García-Salcedo
JA(3), Navarro-Marí JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria
ibs.GRANADA, University Hospital Virgen de las Nieves, Granada, Spain. Electronic
address: fernando.cobo.sspa@juntadeandalucia.es.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria
ibs.GRANADA, University Hospital Virgen de las Nieves, Granada, Spain.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria
ibs.GRANADA, University Hospital Virgen de las Nieves, Granada, Spain; GENYO,
Centre for Genomics and Oncological Research, Pfizer/University of
Granada/Andalusian Regional Government, Granada, Spain.

Propionibacterium (Propionimicrobium) lymphophilum is a Gram-positive anaerobic
rod involved in few human diseases. We report a rare case of bacteremia due to
this microorganism in an elderly patient. A 95-year-old woman without a
remarkable medical history presented with dyspnea, chest pain and fever for seven
days. Blood cultures resulted in isolation of P. lymphophilum. Resistance only to
metronidazole was found. Treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid was
established, and the patient was discharged and improvement of her general
condition was documented.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2020.102166 
PMID: 32007683 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no conflict of interest.

