
1. Am J Case Rep. 2019 Dec 29;20:1961-1965. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.919775.

Don't Let Its Name Fool You: Relapsing Thoracic Actinomycosis Caused by
Pseudopropionibacterium propionicum (Formerly Propionibacterium propionicum).

Suzuki H(1), Arshava EV(2), Ford B(3), Nauseef WM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Iowa Carver College of
Medicine, Iowa City, IA, USA.
(2)Department of Surgery, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine, Iowa
City, IA, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine, Iowa
City, IA, USA.

BACKGROUND Pseudopropionibacterium propionicum was called Propionibacterium
propionicum until a recent taxonomy change in 2016. Diseases caused by P.
propionicum resemble actinomycosis and thus differ dramatically from the
infectious syndromes caused by common cutaneous Propionibacterium spp. However,
if treating physicians are not familiar with P. propionicum and its clinical
presentations, it is possible for them to regard it as a skin contaminant such as
Cutibacterium acnes (formerly Propionibacterium acnes). CASE REPORT A 71-year-old
man with past surgical history of right pneumonectomy was admitted with right
chest wall abscess and right empyema. The chest wall abscess was drained
surgically, and the empyema was drained via a chest tube. The abscess culture
took 5 days to grow beaded branching Gram-positive rods, and 15 days to identify 
them as P. propionicum. The patient received 17 days of ceftriaxone and 4 weeks
of doxycycline. However, he experienced a relapse of the chest wall abscess and
right empyema 4 months after discontinuation of doxycycline. Cultures from the
chest wall abscess and empyema grew P. propionicum again. We treated him with
ceftriaxone for 6 months followed by minocycline for 7 months along with adequate
drainage. CONCLUSIONS It is important to recognize that P. propionicum can cause 
thoracic actinomycosis and will likely require the prolonged treatment course
typical for actinomycotic disease, which is 2 to 8 weeks of intravenous
antibiotic therapy followed by 6 to 12 months of oral antibiotic therapy.

DOI: 10.12659/AJCR.919775 
PMCID: PMC6956836
PMID: 31884507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

