
1. Biotechnol Appl Biochem. 2020 Sep 17. doi: 10.1002/bab.2031. [Epub ahead of
print]

Improving propionic acid production from a hemicellulosic hydrolysate of sorghum 
bagasse by means of cell immobilization and sequential batch operation.

Castro PGM(1), Maeda RN(2), Rocha VAL(1), Fernandes RP(1), Pereira N Jr(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Biofuels, Oil and Derivatives, School of Chemistry, Federal
University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, CEP, Brazil.
(2)Novozymes Latin America, Barigui, Rua Professor Francisco Ribeiro, Araucaria, 
Parana, CEP, Brazil.

Propionic acid (PA) is an important organic compound with extensive application
in different industrial sectors and is currently produced by petrochemical
processes. The production of PA by large-scale fermentation processes presents a 
bottleneck, particularly due to low volumetric productivity. In this context, the
present work aimed to produce PA by a biochemical route from a hemicellulosic
hydrolysate of sorghum bagasse using the strain Propionibacterium acidipropionici
CIP 53164. Conditions were optimized to increase volumetric productivity and
process efficiency. Initially, in simple batch fermentation, a final
concentration of PA of 17.5 g⋅L-1 was obtained. Next, fed batch operation with
free cells was adopted to minimize substrate inhibition. Although a higher
concentration of PA was achieved (38.0 g⋅L-1 ), the response variables (YP/S =
0.409 g⋅g-1 and QP = 0.198 g⋅L-1 ⋅H-1 ) were close to those of the simple batch
experiment. Finally, the fermentability of the hemicellulosic hydrolysate was
investigated in a sequential batch with immobilized cells. The PA concentration
achieved a maximum of 35.3 g⋅L-1 in the third cycle; moreover, the volumetric
productivity was almost sixfold higher (1.17 g⋅L-1 ⋅H-1 ) in sequential batch
than in simple batch fermentation. The results are highly promising, providing
preliminary data for studies on scaling up the production of this organic acid.

© 2020 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bab.2031 
PMID: 32942342 

