
1. Biomed Chromatogr. 2020 Aug 27:e4977. doi: 10.1002/bmc.4977. [Epub ahead of
print]

Application of an LC-ESI-QTOF-MS method for evaluating clindamycin concentrations
in plasma and prostate microdialysate of rats.

Ritter L(1), Possa E(2), Bergoza L(2), Agostini F(1), Silva SM(1), Tasso
L(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, University of Caxias do Sul, Caxias do Sul,
Brazil.
(2)College of Pharmacy, University of Caxias do Sul, Caxias do Sul, Brazil.
(3)Health Sciences Postgraduate Program, University of Caxias do Sul, Caxias do
Sul, Brazil.

Clindamycin is used for infections caused by Gram-positive and Gram-negative
anaerobic pathogens and Gram-positive aerobes. Propionibacterium acnes is an
important opportunistic microorganism of the human skin and is related to
prostatitis. An LC-electrospray ionization-quadrupole time-of-flight-MS method
was validated for determining clindamycin concentrations in plasma and prostate
microdialysate. Clindamycin separation was carried out on a C18 column at
0.5 mL/min. The mobile phase employed gradient elution of formic acid and
methanol. A mass spectrometer was operated in positive electrospray ionization
mode to monitor ion 425.1784 and 253.1152 for clindamycin and cimetidine
(internal standard), respectively. Linearity was obtained at 0.5-10.0 μg/mL
(plasma) and 0.05-1.0 μg/mL (microdialysate) with coefficients of determination
≥0.999. The intra- and inter-day precision (coefficient of variation - CV%)
values were ≤13.83% and 12.51% for plasma, respectively, and ≤10.90% and 9.35%
for microdialysate, respectively. The accuracy was between 90.82% and 108.25% for
plasma, and 96.97% and 106.98% for microdialysate. The present method was fully
validated and applied to investigate clindamycin concentrations in both plasma
and prostate by microdialysis in Wistar rats (80 mg/kg, intravenous). Because the
penetration of antibiotics into the prostate may be restricted, this method
allows us to investigate the prostate concentrations of clindamycin for the first
time.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bmc.4977 
PMID: 32852079 

