
1. Biotechnol Prog. 2020 May 1:e3011. doi: 10.1002/btpr.3011. [Epub ahead of print]

Biosynthesis of vitamin B12 by Propionibacterium freudenreichii subsp. shermanii 
ATCC 13673 using liquid acid protein residue of soybean as culture medium.

Assis DA(1), Matte C(1), Aschidamini B(1), Rodrigues E(1), Záchia Ayub MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology & Biochemical Engineering Laboratory (BiotecLab), Food Science
and Technology Institute, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, 
Brazil.

Vitamin B12 deficiency still persists, mainly caused by low intake of animal food
products affecting vegetarians, vegans, and populations of underdeveloped
countries. In this study, we investigate the biosynthesis of vitamin B12 by
potential probiotic bacterium using an agroindustry residue, the liquid acid
protein residue of soybean (LAPRS), as a low-cost, animal derivate-free
alternative culture medium. Cultures of Propionibacterium freudenreichii subsp.
shermanii ATCC 13673 growing in LAPRS for vitamin B12 biosynthesis were studied
using the Plackett-Burman experimental approach, followed by a central composite 
design 22 to optimize the concentration of significant variables. We also
performed a proteolytic treatment of LAPRS and evaluated the optimized-hydrolyzed
medium influence on the microbial growth and metabolism in shaker flask and
bioreactor experiments. In this all-plant source medium, P. freudenreichii subsp.
shermanii produced high concentrations of cells and high amounts of vitamin B12
(0.6 mg/g cells) after process optimization. These results suggest the
possibility of producing vitamin B12 by a potential probiotic bacterium in a very
cheap, animal derivate-free medium to address the needs of specific population
groups, at the same time reducing the production costs of this essential vitamin.

© 2020 American Institute of Chemical Engineers.

DOI: 10.1002/btpr.3011 
PMID: 32356411 

