
1. Acta Biomater. 2020 Oct 1;115:136-147. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2020.08.023. Epub
2020 Aug 25.

Active pharmaceutical ingredient poly(ionic liquid)-based microneedles for the
treatment of skin acne infection.

Zhang T(1), Sun B(2), Guo J(1), Wang M(1), Cui H(2), Mao H(3), Wang B(4), Yan
F(5).

Author information: 
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Advanced Functional Polymer Design and Application, 
Department of Polymer Science and Engineering, College of Chemistry, Chemical
Engineering and Materials Science, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, China.
(2)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Shanghai Ninth People's
Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200011,
China.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, Zhongshan Hospital,
Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.. Electronic address:
mao.hailei@zs-hospital.sh.cn.
(4)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Shanghai Ninth People's
Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200011,
China.. Electronic address: wangbin1766@163.com.
(5)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Advanced Functional Polymer Design and Application, 
Department of Polymer Science and Engineering, College of Chemistry, Chemical
Engineering and Materials Science, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, China..
Electronic address: fyan@suda.edu.cn.

As an inflammatory skin disease of pilosebaceous follicles, Propionibacterium
acnes (P. acnes) can aggravate local inflammatory responses and forms acne
lesions. However, due to the skin barrier, various transdermal measures other
than antibiotic creams are necessary. Microneedle (MN) patches are emerging
platforms for the transdermal delivery of various therapeutics since it can
effectively create transport pathways in the epidermis. Herein, we develop an
active pharmaceutical ingredient poly(ionic liquid) (API PIL)-based MN patches
containing salicylic acid (SA). The PIL-based MNs are simply prepared through
photo-crosslinking of an imidazolium-type ionic liquid (IL) monomer in MN
micro-molds, and following by anion exchange with salicylic acid anions (SA-).
The fabricated SA-loaded PIL-MNs exhibited therapeutic efficiency in the topical 
treatment of P. acnes infection in vitro and in vivo. These active pharmaceutical
ingredient PIL-based MNs can improve acne treatment, demonstrating potential
applications for skin diseases. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Microneedle (MN)
patches can be used as platforms for transdermal delivery of various therapeutics
to treat bacterial infection. Here, a facile strategy was developed to synthesize
active pharmaceutical ingredient poly(ionic liquid)-based microneedle patches by 
anion-exchange with salicylic acid anion (SA-). The fabricated SA-loaded PIL-MNs 
are active on not only anti-bacteria but also anti-inflammation in P. acnes
treated mice, and may have potential applications for skin acne infection.

Copyright Â© 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2020.08.023 
PMID: 32853804 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

