
1. Ital J Food Saf. 2019 Dec 5;8(4):8462. doi: 10.4081/ijfs.2019.8462. eCollection
2019 Dec 5.

Application of shotgun metagenomics to smoked salmon experimentally spiked:
Comparison between sequencing and microbiological data using different
bioinformatic approaches.

Cesare A(1), Oliveri C(2), Lucchi A(2), Pasquali F(2), Manfreda G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medical Sciences.
(2)Department of Agricultural and Food Sciences, Alma Mater Studiorum University 
of Bologna, Italy.

The aims of this study were i) to evaluate the possibility to detect and possibly
quantify microorganisms belonging to different domains experimentally spiked in
smoked salmon at known concentrations using shotgun metagenomics; ii) to compare 
the sequencing results using four bioinformatic tools. The salmon was spiked with
six species of bacteria, including potential foodborne pathogens, as well as
Cryptosporidium parvum, Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Bovine alphaherpesvirus 1.
After spiking, the salmon was kept refrigerated before DNA extraction, library
preparation and sequencing at 7 Gbp in paired ends at 150 bp. The bioinformatic
tools named MG-RAST, OneCodex, CosmosID and MgMapper were used for the sequence
analysis and the data provided were compared using STAMP. All bacteria spiked in 
the salmon were identified using all bioinformatic tools. Such tools were also
able to assign the higher abundances to the species Propionibacterium
freudenreichii spiked at the highest concentration in comparison to the other
bacteria. Nevertheless, different abundances were quantified for bacteria spiked 
in the salmon at the same cell concentration. Cryptosporidium parvum was detected
by all bioinformatics tools, while Saccharomyces cerevisiae by MG-RAST only.
Finally, the DNA virus was detected by CosmosID and OneCodex only. Overall, the
results of this study showed that shotgun metagenomics can be applied to detect
microorganisms belonging to different domains in the same food sample.
Nevertheless, a direct correlation between cell concentration of each spiked
microorganism and number of corresponding reads cannot be established yet.

Â©Copyright: the Author(s), 2019.

DOI: 10.4081/ijfs.2019.8462 
PMCID: PMC6912132
PMID: 31897401 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interests: the authors declare no
potential conflict of interests.

