
1. Pharm Dev Technol. 2020 Aug 10:1-10. doi: 10.1080/10837450.2020.1805761. [Epub
ahead of print]

Preparation, characterization and antimicrobial activity evaluation of
electrospun PCL nanofiber composites of resveratrol nanocrystals.

Karakucuk A(1)(2), Tort S(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Gazi University,
Ankara, Turkey.
(2)Fiber Farma Drug Cosmetics Medical Devices and Consulting, Gazi Technopark,
Ankara, Turkey.

The objective of this study was to develop resveratrol nanocrystals to solve low 
water solubility issues of resveratrol and adsorb them to the polycaprolactone
nanofibers. Nanocrystals were prepared by microfluidization. Particle size,
polydispersity index and zeta potential values were evaluated as dependent
variables. Polycaprolactone (PCL) nanofibers were prepared via electrospinning
method and the flow rate, electrical voltage and tip-to-collector distance were
set to 3 mL/h, 13 kV and 15 cm, respectively. Optimum resveratrol nanocrystals
were lyophilized and re-suspended in water and physically adsorbed to PCL
nanofibers with two different concentrations (0.2 and 1 mg/cm2). Bioadhesion,
wettability, solubility, drug loading and antimicrobial activity against
Propionibacterium acnes studies were carried out. Final nanocrystals showed
800 nm of particle size, 0.4 of polydispersity index, and -8 mV of zeta
potential. Nanocrystals successfully adsorbed to PCL nanofibers proven on SEM
images with adsorption efficiencies >70%. Adsorption of resveratrol nanocrystals 
decreased the contact angle of PCL from 128° to 50°. The solubility of
resveratrol nanocrystals enhanced ∼5-fold in comparison with coarse powder.
Effective antimicrobial activity against P. acnes was observed. It is concluded
that nanocrystal loading on nanofibers brings advantage into preparing easy to
use dermal patches for acne treatment or skin disorders.

DOI: 10.1080/10837450.2020.1805761 
PMID: 32744472 

