
1. Exp Ther Med. 2020 Sep;20(3):2039-2042. doi: 10.3892/etm.2020.8935. Epub 2020 Jun
25.

Reduction in the processing of possible blood culture contaminants by the
application of a selection criterion.

Neonakis IK(1), Stafylaki D(1), Spandidos DA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Microbial Pathogenesis, University
Hospital of Heraklion, 71201 Heraklion, Greece.
(2)Laboratory of Clinical Virology, School of Medicine, University of Crete,
71003 Heraklion, Greece.

Possible blood culture (BC) contaminants are generally considered to be skin
flora species including coagulase-negative Staphylococci (CNS), Corynebacterium
species, Micrococcus species, Bacillus species and Propionibacterium acnes. Prior
to October 1, 2016 all possible BC contaminants were fully processed
(identification, susceptibility testing) in our laboratory. In order to reduce
the laboratory workload from October 1, 2016 a possible contaminant was only
processed if it was present in more than one BC pair drawn from the same patient 
within the same day. The two-year study period was divided in two periods namely 
period A from January 1, 2016 to September 30, 2016 (first 9 months) and period B
from October 1, 2016 to December 31, 2017 (last 15 months). A series of indices
(INs) were calculated including among others the Working Rate IN (WR) defined as 
the total isolates divided to the total number of BCs submitted per month and the
CNS Rate (CNSR) defined as the total number of CNS processed divided to the total
number of BCs submitted per month. A 23.08% reduction in the CNSR was noted (from
3.51% in period A to 2.70% in period B) whereas the overall WR was reduced from
7.19% in period A to 6.84% in period B. Furthermore, the total number of
contaminants processed per month divided to the total number of isolates
processed per month was reduced from 54.50% in period A to 42.41% in period B.
The reduction in the INs recorded is of great value since it was achieved by the 
implementation of a simple criterion easily applicable and without any cost.

Copyright: Â© Neonakis et al.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2020.8935 
PMCID: PMC7401217
PMID: 32782514 

