
1. Metab Eng. 2020 May;59:142-150. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2020.02.002. Epub 2020 Feb
13.

Metabolic engineering of type II methanotroph, Methylosinus trichosporium OB3b,
for production of 3-hydroxypropionic acid from methane via a malonyl-CoA
reductase-dependent pathway.

Nguyen DTN(1), Lee OK(1), Lim C(2), Lee J(2), Na JG(3), Lee EY(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Kyung Hee University, Gyeonggi-do, 17104, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Sogang University, Seoul,
04107, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Sogang University, Seoul,
04107, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: narosu@sogang.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering, Kyung Hee University, Gyeonggi-do, 17104, 
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: eunylee@khu.ac.kr.

We engineered a type II methanotroph, Methylosinus trichosporium OB3b, for
3-hydroxypropionic acid (3HP) production by reconstructing malonyl-CoA pathway
through heterologous expression of Chloroflexus aurantiacus malonyl-CoA reductase
(MCR), a bifunctional enzyme. Two strategies were designed and implemented to
increase the malonyl-CoA pool and thus, increase in 3HP production. First, we
engineered the supply of malonyl-CoA precursors by overexpressing endogenous
acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), substantially enhancing the production of 3HP.
Overexpression of biotin protein ligase (BPL) and malic enzyme (NADP+-ME) led to 
a ∼22.7% and ∼34.5% increase, respectively, in 3HP titer in ACC-overexpressing
cells. Also, the acetyl-CoA carboxylation bypass route was reconstructed to
improve 3HP productivity. Co-expression of methylmalonyl-CoA carboxyltransferase 
(MMC) of Propionibacterium freudenreichii and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase
(PEPC), which provides the MMC precursor, further improved the 3HP titer. The
highest 3HP production of 49 mg/L in the OB3b-MCRMP strain overexpressing MCR,
MMC and PEPC resulted in a 2.4-fold improvement of titer compared with that in
the only MCR-overexpressing strain. Finally, we could obtain 60.59 mg/L of 3HP in
42 h using the OB3b-MCRMP strain through bioreactor operation, with a 6.36-fold
increase of volumetric productivity compared than that in the flask cultures.
This work demonstrates metabolic engineering of type II methanotrophs, opening
the door for using type II methanotrophs as cell factories for biochemical
production along with mitigation of greenhouse gases.

Copyright © 2020 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2020.02.002 
PMID: 32061966 

