
1. Microorganisms. 2019 Oct 22;7(10). pii: E477. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms7100477.

Taking Advantage of Bacterial Adaptation in Order to Optimize Industrial
Production of Dry Propionibacterium freudenreichii.

Gaucher F(1)(2), Gagnaire V(3), Rabah H(4)(5), Maillard MB(6), Bonnassie S(7)(8),
Pottier S(9), Marchand P(10), Jan G(11), Blanc P(12), Jeantet R(13).

Author information: 
(1)UMR STLO, Agrocampus Ouest, INRA, F-35042 Rennes, France.
floriane.gaucher@inra.fr.
(2)Bioprox, 6 rue Barbès, 92532 Levallois-Perret, France.
floriane.gaucher@inra.fr.
(3)UMR STLO, Agrocampus Ouest, INRA, F-35042 Rennes, France.
valerie.gagnaire@inra.fr.
(4)UMR STLO, Agrocampus Ouest, INRA, F-35042 Rennes, France.
houyemrabah1990@gmail.com.
(5)Bba, Pôle Agronomique Ouest, Régions Bretagne et Pays de la Loire, F-35042
Rennes, France. houyemrabah1990@gmail.com.
(6)UMR STLO, Agrocampus Ouest, INRA, F-35042 Rennes, France.
marie-bernadette.maillard@inra.fr.
(7)UMR STLO, Agrocampus Ouest, INRA, F-35042 Rennes, France.
sylvie.bonnassie@univ-rennes1.fr.
(8)Université de Rennes I, University Rennes, 35000 Rennes, France.
sylvie.bonnassie@univ-rennes1.fr.
(9)University Rennes, CNRS, ISCR-UMR 6226, PRISM, BIOSIT-UMS 3480, F-35000
Rennes, France. sandrine.pottier@univ-rennes1.fr.
(10)Bioprox, 6 rue Barbès, 92532 Levallois-Perret, France.
p.marchand@bioprox.com.
(11)UMR STLO, Agrocampus Ouest, INRA, F-35042 Rennes, France.
gwenael.jan@inra.fr.
(12)Bioprox, 6 rue Barbès, 92532 Levallois-Perret, France. p.blanc@bioprox.com.
(13)UMR STLO, Agrocampus Ouest, INRA, F-35042 Rennes, France.
romain.jeantet@agrocampus-ouest.fr.

Propionibacterium freudenreichii is a beneficial bacterium, used both as a
probiotic and as a cheese starter. Large-scale production of P. freudenreichii is
required to meet growing consumers' demand. Production, drying and storage must
be optimized, in order to guarantee high P. freudenreichii viability within
powders. Compared to freeze-drying, spray drying constitutes the most productive 
and efficient, yet the most stressful process, imposing severe oxidative and
thermal constraints. The aim of our study was to provide the tools in order to
optimize the industrial production of dry P. freudenreichii. Bacterial adaptation
is a well-known protective mechanism and may be used to improve bacterial
tolerance towards technological stresses. However, the choice of bacterial
adaptation type must consider industrial constraints. In this study, we combined 
(i) modulation of the growth medium composition, (ii) heat-adaptation, and (iii) 
osmoadaptation, in order to increase P. freudenreichii tolerance towards
technological stresses, including thermal and oxidative constraints, using an
experimental design. We further investigated optimal growth and adaptation
conditions, by monitoring intracellular compatible solutes accumulation. Glucose 
addition, coupled to heat-adaptation, triggered accumulation of trehalose and of 
glycine betaine, which further provided high tolerance towards spray drying and
storage. This work opens new perspectives for high quality and fast production of
live propionibacteria at the industrial scale.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms7100477 
PMCID: PMC6843336
PMID: 31652621 

