
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Aug 10. pii: S0141-8130(20)33924-6. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.07.165. [Epub ahead of print]

Bioinformatics and experimental studies on the structural roles of a
surface-exposed α-helix at the C-terminal domain of Chondroitinase ABC I.

Jamshidi N(1), Shirdel SA(2), Pourahmadi M(1), Jafarian V(3), Khalifeh K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Zanjan, Zanjan,
Iran.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Tarbiat Modares
University, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Zanjan, Zanjan,
Iran; Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Zanjan,
Zanjan, Iran.
(4)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Zanjan, Zanjan,
Iran; Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Zanjan,
Zanjan, Iran. Electronic address: khalifeh@znu.ac.ir.

A series of single and double mutants generated on residues of a surfaced-exposed
helix at the C-terminal domain of chondroitinase ABC I (cABC I) from proteus
vulgaris. M886A, G887E, and their respective double mutant, MA/GE were inspired
by the sequence of a similar helix segment in 30S ribosomal protein S1.
Additionally, M889I, Q891K, and the corresponding double mutant, MI/QK, were made
regarding the sequence of a similar helix in chondroitin lyase from Proteus
mirabilis. Circular dichroism spectra in the far-UV region, demonstrate that the 
ordered structure of wild-type (WT), and double mutants are the same; however,
the helicity of the ordered structures in MI/QK is higher than that of the WT
enzyme. When compared with the single mutants, the double mutants showed higher
activity, and that the activity of MI/QK is higher than that of the WT enzyme.
Heat-induced denaturation experiments showed that the stability of the tertiary
structure of double mutants at moderate temperatures is higher compared with the 
WT, and single mutants. It concluded that this helix can be considered as one of 
the hot spots region that can be more manipulated to obtain improved variants of 
cABC I.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.07.165 
PMID: 32791283 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that influence data of the current work.

