
1. Weil Felix Test.

Cox AL(1), Tadi P(2).
In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2020-.
2020 Jun 9.

Author information: 
(1)Lake Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine
(2)Creighton University- CHI health

First described in 1916, the Weil-Felix reaction is a test used in the diagnosis 
of rickettsial infections. While it has largely been replaced with new
serological techniques, the Weil-Felix test continues to hold great importance in
resource-limited areas where more advanced methods are unavailable. The known
pathogenic rickettsia species are gram-negative, obligate intracellular bacteria 
that include an increasing number of identified organisms belonging to seven
genera (Rickettsia, Orientia, Ehrlichia, Anaplasma, Neorickettsia, Candidatus,
Neoehrlichia, and Coxiella). They are closely related and are traditionally
separated into 3 groups: the epidemic and endemic typhus group, scrub typhus
group, and the spotted fever group.[1] The test was developed upon the
observation that certain serotypes of Proteus bacteria display antigenic
cross-reactivity with Rickettsia species. Through the isolation of these Proteus 
antigens, a heterophile agglutination reaction was developed that could identify 
the presence of antibodies against the Rickettsia disease groups. P. vulgaris
OX19 antigen reacts with antibodies to typhus-group (TG), P. mirabilis OXK
antigen reacts with antibodies to the scrub typhus group (STG), and both P.
vulgaris OX2 and OX19 antigens react with antibodies to the spotted fever group
(SFG).[2] Due to its low sensitivity and specificity, the Weil-Felix test has
fallen out of favor in most clinical settings, and its use is no longer
recommended in routine practice. The current gold standard in the diagnosis of
rickettsial infections is indirect immunofluorescence, which is available through
most state health departments in areas where the infections are common.[3]

PMID: 32644651 

