
1. Int J Med Mushrooms. 2020;22(4):359-366. doi:
10.1615/IntJMedMushrooms.2020034178.

Comparative Assessment of Antifungal and Antibacterial Activities of Crude
Extracts of the King Tuber Culinary-Medicinal Mushroom, Pleurotus tuber-regium
(Agaricomycetes) from Cameroon.

Metsebing BP(1), Oba R(1), Mossebo DC(2), Fonkui TY(3), Tsigain FT(2), Fotsing
MCD(4), Mungoh TC(4), Ndinteh DN(4).

Author information: 
(1)Mycological Laboratory, University of Yaoundé 1, B.P. 1456 Yaoundé, Cameroon; 
Department of Biotechnology and Food Technology, University of Johannesburg, P.
O. Box 17011, Doornfontein Campus 2028, South Africa; Department of Chemical
Sciences, University of Johannesburg, P. O. Box 17011, Doornfontein Campus 2028, 
South Africa.
(2)Mycological Laboratory, University of Yaoundé 1, B.P. 1456 Yaoundé, Cameroon.
(3)Department of Biotechnology and Food Technology, University of Johannesburg,
P. O. Box 17011, Doornfontein Campus 2028, South Africa.
(4)Department of Chemical Sciences, University of Johannesburg, P. O. Box 17011, 
Doornfontein Campus 2028, South Africa.

Antifungal and antibacterial activities of crude extracts of carpophore compared 
with those of sclerotium of Pleurotus tuber-regium were investigated on 11
species of bacterial and 3 fungal human pathogens. The minimal inhibitory
concentration (MIC) of carpophore extract was recorded to be 12.5 mg/mL on
Bacillus subtilis, Enterococcus faecalis, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Escherichia
cloacae, Proteus mirabilis, P. vulgaris, Klebsiella oxytoca, and K. aerogenes and
6.25 mg/mL on Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Mycobacterium
smegmatis as well as on all three species of fungal pathogens including Candida
albicans, Aspergillus fumigatus, and A. ochraceus. In comparison, the MIC of
sclerotium was recorded to be 12.5 mg/mL on Bacillus subtilis and Klebsiella
aerogenes; 6.25 mg/mL on Enterococcus faecalis, Staphylococcus aureus, S.
epidermidis, Enterobacter cloacae, E. coli, Mycobacterium smegmatis, Proteus
mirabilis, P. vulgaris, and Klebsiella oxytoca; and 3.13 mg/mL on the three
fungal pathogens. Based on the abovementioned figures, it appears that strains of
pathogenic fungi tested are much more sensitive to crude extracts than the
abovementioned bacteria. In fact, antimicrobial activities of crude extracts of
P. tuber-regium, no matter whether it is that of the carpophore or its
sclerotium, are in general stronger on human pathogenic fungi than bacteria.
These figures also demonstrate that crude extracts of sclerotium show a higher
antimicrobial activity than that of carpophore. Carpophores and sclerotia of P.
tuber-regium could therefore constitute a source of new molecules potentially
more efficient than synthetic products against some human pathogenic fungi and
bacteria.

DOI: 10.1615/IntJMedMushrooms.2020034178 
PMID: 32558500 

