
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Sep 29. pii: S0141-8130(20)34595-5. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.09.233. [Epub ahead of print]

Proteomic analysis deciphers the multi-targeting antivirulence activity of tannic
acid in modulating the expression of MrpA, FlhD, UreR, HpmA and Nrp system in
Proteus mirabilis.

Durgadevi R(1), Abirami G(1), Swasthikka RP(1), Alexpandi R(1), Pandian SK(1),
Ravi AV(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Alagappa University, Science Campus, Karaikudi
630 003, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Alagappa University, Science Campus, Karaikudi
630 003, Tamil Nadu, India. Electronic address: aveeraravi@rediffmail.com.

In the present study, the multi-targeting antivirulence activity of tannic acid
(TA) was explored against Proteus mirabilis through MS-based proteomic approach. 
The in vitro biofilm biomass quantification assay and microscopic analysis
demonstrated the antibiofilm activity of TA against P. mirabilis in which,
minimum biofilm inhibitory concentration (MBIC) of TA was found to be 200 μg/mL
concentration. Moreover, the nanoscale liquid chromatography coupled to tandem
mass spectrometry (nano LC-MS/MS) analysis revealed that TA (at MBIC)
differentially regulated the proteins involved in fimbrial adhesion, flagellar
motility, iron acquisition, Fe-S cluster assembly, heat shock response, virulence
enzymes, and toxin secretion. Further, the transcriptomic analysis validated the 
outcomes of proteomic analysis in which, the expression level of virulence genes 
responsible for MR/P fimbrial adhesion (mrpA), flagellar transcriptional
activation (flhD), biosynthesis of urease (ureR), hemolysin (hmpA), non-ribosomal
peptide siderophore system (Nrp), oxidative stress responsible enzymes and
fitness factors proteins were down-regulated in TA exposed P. mirabilis. These
observations were also in correspondence with the in vitro bioassays. Thus, this 
study reports the feasibility of TA to act as a promising therapeutic agent
against multifactorial P. mirabilis infections.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.09.233 
PMID: 33007322 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no conflict of interest.

