
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jul 18;8(7). pii: E1074. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8071074.

Functional Identification and Evolutionary Analysis of Two Novel Plasmids
Mediating Quinolone Resistance in Proteus vulgaris.

Zhang H(1), Chang M(2), Zhang X(1), Cai P(1), Dai Y(1), Song T(1), Wu Z(1), Xu
H(1), Qiao M(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Key Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology and Technology, Ministry of
Education, College of Life Sciences, Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, China.
(2)Zhengzhou University Industrial Technology Institute Co. Ltd., Zhengzhou
450000, China.

Plasmid-mediated quinolone resistance (PMQR) remains one of the main mechanisms
of bacterial quinolone resistance and plays an important role in the transmission
of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs). In this study, two novel plasmids, p3M-2A 
and p3M-2B, which mediate quinolone resistance in Proteus vulgaris strain 3M
(P3M) were identified. Of these, only p3M-2B appeared to be a qnrD-carrying
plasmid. Both p3M-2A and p3M-2B could be transferred into Escherichia coli, and
the latter caused a twofold change in ciprofloxacin resistance, according to the 
measured minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC). Plasmid curing/complementation
and qRT-PCR results showed that p3M-2A can directly regulate the expression of
qnrD in p3M-2B under treatment with ciprofloxacin, in which process, ORF1 was
found to play an important role. Sequence alignments and phylogenetic analysis
revealed the evolutionary relationships of all reported qnrD-carrying plasmids
and showed that ORF1-4 in p3M-2B is the most conserved backbone for the normal
function of qnrD-carrying plasmids. The identified direct repeats (DR) suggested 
that, from an evolutionary perspective, p3M-2B may have originated from the
2683-bp qnrD-carrying plasmid and may increase the possibility of plasmid
recombination and then of qnrD transfer. To the best of our knowledge, this is
the first identification of a novel qnrD-carrying plasmid isolated from a P.
vulgaris strain of shrimp origin and a plasmid that plays a regulatory role in
qnrD expression. This study also sheds new light on plasmid evolution and on the 
mechanism of horizontal transfer of ARGs encoded by plasmids.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8071074 
PMCID: PMC7409132
PMID: 32708454 

