
1. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2020 Sep;139:109581. doi: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2020.109581.
Epub 2020 May 5.

Antibacterial activity of emulsions containing unsaturated fatty acid ergosterol 
esters synthesized by lipase-mediated transesterification.

Park SH(1), Kim HK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biotechnology, The Catholic University of Korea, Bucheon, 420-743,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Division of Biotechnology, The Catholic University of Korea, Bucheon, 420-743,
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: hkkim@catholic.ac.kr.

Ergosterol, like cholesterol, has many beneficial physiological activities, and
because it has no adverse clinical problem with cholesterol, it is a substance
that can be used as a biomaterial in the food and cosmetics industry. However,
ergosterol has low oil solubility and is easily crystallized, which is
problematic for its direct use in the industry. This problem can be solved by
combining fatty acids with ergosterol. In this study, ergosterol derivatives with
unsaturated fatty acids were synthesized from ergosterol and various plant oils. 
Specifically, ergosterol oleate (EO), ergosterol linoleate (EL), and ergosterol
linolenate (ELn) were synthesized using Proteus vulgaris K80 lipase. To
effectively synthesize these unsaturated fatty acid ergosterol esters (FAEEs),
25 mM ergosterol and 40 mM plant oil were added into hexane solvent, and
transesterification reaction was performed at 40 °C. Proteus vulgaris K80 lipase 
showed higher conversion yield than other commercial lipases, due to its high
affinity to ergosterol and broad substrate specificity. Rapeseed oil, sunflower
seed oil, and linseed oil were used to synthesize EO, EL, and ELn, respectively. 
The FAEEs were purified, and their purity was confirmed by FT-IR and LC-MS. The
solubility of the FAEEs in a tricaprylin solvent was increased 11-16 times,
compared to that of ergosterol. We found that EL- and ELn-containing emulsions
had strong growth inhibitory activity against some dairy and cosmetic spoilage
bacteria.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2020.109581 
PMID: 32732030 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
have no financial conflicts of interest to declare.

