
1. Int J Low Extrem Wounds. 2020 Jun 11:1534734620923455. doi:
10.1177/1534734620923455. [Epub ahead of print]

Bacterial Isolates and Their Antibiotics Susceptibility Pattern Among Patients
Admitted With Chronic Lower Limb Ulcers at Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre
Northern Zone Referral Hospital, Tanzania.

Hape WM(1), Magambo MJ(1), Ngocho JS(1), Mosha V(2), Msuya SE(1)(3), Leyaro
BJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kilimanjaro Christian Medical University College, Moshi, Kilimanjaro,
Tanzania.
(2)Kilimanjaro Clinical Research Institute, Moshi, Kilimanjaro, Tanzania.
(3)Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre, Moshi, Kilimanjaro, Tanzania.

Objective. To identify the bacterial isolates and their antibiotics
susceptibility pattern among patients with lower limb ulcers admitted at a
tertiary hospital in northern Tanzania. Methodology. A cross-sectional study was 
conducted between April and July 2018 at the Kilimanjaro Christian Medical
Centre. Questionnaire was used to obtain the demographics and clinical
information of participants. Wound samples were collected and culture method used
to identify the bacteria and their susceptibility patterns. Results. Out of 65
participants, 55 (84.6%) had positive aerobic bacterial growth. Twelve (18 %)
participants had more than one bacterium. Fifty-nine (88.1%) were gram-negative
bacteria. Proteus vulgaris (13, 19.9%), Pseudomonas spp (10, 14.8%), and
Staphylococcus aureus (8, 11.7%) were the common isolates. Out of 59
gram-negative bacterial, 47 (78%) were sensitive to amikacin. Staph were
sensitive to oxacillin (75%; n = 8) and vancomycin (50%; n = 8). Gram-negative
were common isolates and were resistant to amoxicillin/clavulanic acid but
sensitive to amikacin. Conclusion. The observed resistance to antibiotics calls
for continuous monitoring of the resistance pattern to guide the empirical
management of patients with leg ulcer.

DOI: 10.1177/1534734620923455 
PMID: 32525722 

