
1. Front Chem. 2020 Aug 19;8:620. doi: 10.3389/fchem.2020.00620. eCollection 2020.

Biosynthesized Silver Nanoparticles by Aqueous Stem Extract of Entada spiralis
and Screening of Their Biomedical Activity.

Wan Mat Khalir WKA(1), Shameli K(1), Jazayeri SD(2), Othman NA(1), Che Jusoh
NW(1), Hassan NM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Malaysia-Japan
International Institute of Technology, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Centre for Virus and Vaccine Research, School of Science and Technology,
Sunway University, Subang Jaya, Malaysia.
(3)Kulliyyah of Pharmacy, International Islamic University Malaysia, Kuantan,
Malaysia.

Silver nanoparticles (Ag-NPs) have been established as antibacterial
nanoparticles and have been innovatively developed to overcome the occurrence of 
antibiotic resistance in the environment. In this study, an environmentally
friendly and easy method of the biosynthesis of Ag-NPs plants, mediated by
aqueous extract stem extract of Entada spiralis (E. spiralis), was successfully
developed. The E. spiralis/Ag-NPs samples were characterized using spectroscopy
and the microscopic technique of UV-visible (UV-vis), X-ray Diffraction (XRD),
Field Emission Transmission Electron Microscope (FETEM), zeta potential, and
Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) analyses. Surface Plasmon Resonance (SPR)
absorption at 400-450 nm in the UV-vis spectra established the formation of E.
spiralis/Ag-NPs. The crystalline structure of E. spiralis/Ag-NPs was displayed in
the XRD analysis. The small size, around 18.49 ± 4.23 nm, and spherical shape of 
Ag-NPs with good distribution was observed in the FETEM image. The best
physicochemical parameters on Ag-NPs biosynthesis using E. spiralis extract
occurred at a moderate temperature (~52.0°C), 0.100 M of silver nitrate, 2.50 g
of E. spiralis dosage and 600 min of stirring reaction time. The antibacterial
activity was tested against Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecalis,
Escherichia coli, and Proteus vulgaris using an antibacterial disk diffusion
assay. Based on the results, it is evident that E. spiralis/Ag-NPs are
susceptible to all the bacteria and has promising potential to be applied in both
the industry and medical fields.

Copyright © 2020 Wan Mat Khalir, Shameli, Jazayeri, Othman, Che Jusoh and Hassan.

DOI: 10.3389/fchem.2020.00620 
PMCID: PMC7466720
PMID: 32974269 

