
1. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2020 Sep 12. doi: 10.1007/s12602-020-09708-w.
[Epub ahead of print]

Synergistically-acting Enterocin LD3 and Plantaricin LD4 Against Gram-Positive
and Gram-Negative Pathogenic Bacteria.

Sheoran P(1), Tiwari SK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak, Haryana, 124001,
India.
(2)Department of Genetics, Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak, Haryana, 124001,
India. santoshgenetics@gmail.com.

The efficacy of antimicrobials is an important aspect during their applications
in food and therapeutics. In this study, combination of two bacteriocins,
enterocin LD3 and plantaricin LD4, was studied against two pathogenic bacteria,
Staphylococcus aureus subsp. aureus ATCC25923 and Salmonella enterica subsp.
enterica serovar Typhimurium ATCC13311 for increasing their potency and
bactericidal activity. The minimal inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of enterocin 
LD3 and plantaricin LD4 against Staph. aureus subsp. aureus ATCC25923 were 180
and 220 μg/mL, whereas in combination, reduced to 115 μg/mL, respectively. The
MICs of enterocin LD3 and plantaricin LD4 against Salm. enterica subsp. enterica 
serovar Typhimurium ATCC13311 were 240 and 320 μg/mL, respectively, whereas in
combination, these were found to be 130 μg/mL, respectively. The fractional
inhibitory concentration (FIC) indices calculated as 0.50 against Staph. aureus
subsp. aureus ATCC25923 and 0.43 against Salm. enterica subsp. enterica serovar
Typhimurium ATCC13311 were found to be ≤ 0.5 indicating the synergy. The
isobologram showed MIC of combined bacteriocins falls below the plotted straight 
line further signifies synergy. The growth response of Staph. aureus subsp.
aureus ATCC25923 and Salm. enterica subsp. enterica serovar Typhimurium ATCC13311
was significantly reduced in the presence of combined bacteriocins in comparison 
with their individual effects. The number of dead cells was higher as a result of
combined effect as compared with their independent effect evidenced by
fluorescent microscopy. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) revealed the
higher disruption of cell membrane in the combined bacteriocin-treated cells as
compared with alone effects. The FTIR spectra of enterocin LD3-treated cells
showed alteration at ~ 1,451.82 and ~ 1,094.30/cm corresponding to nucleic acids 
and phospholipids suggesting its interaction with cell membrane and nucleic
acids. In contrast, plantaricin LD4-treated cells did not show such alterations
suggesting plantaricin LD4 may kill target cells using other mechanism. Our data 
suggest that different mode of action of both bacteriocins results in division of
labour and may be responsible for their synergistic activity against target
cells. Similarly, the synergistic effect of bacteriocins was also observed
against other pathogenic bacteria such as Proteus mirabilis ATCC43071,
Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC27853 and Escherichia coli ATCC25922. These
bacteriocins, therefore, act synergistically against target pathogens and may be 
applied in appropriate combinations for food safety and medical applications.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-020-09708-w 
PMCID: PMC7486809
PMID: 32918678 

