
1. Drug Res (Stuttg). 2020 Aug;70(8):348-355. doi: 10.1055/a-0991-7617. Epub 2020
Jun 19.

Design and Synthesis of Novel
1-substituted-3-(3-(3-nitrophenyl)-4-oxo-3,4-dihydrobenzopyrimidin-2-yl amino)
Isothioureas for their Anti-HIV, Antibacterial Activities, Graph Theoretical
Analysis, Insilico Modeling, Prediction of Toxicity and Metabolic Studies.

Narendhar B(1), Alagarsamy V(1), Krishnan C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Medicinal Chemistry Research Laboratory, MNR College of Pharmacy, Sangareddy, 
Gr. Hyderabad, India.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy, Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and
Research (Deemed to be University), Porur, Chennai, India.

In the present study, we have placed the substituted thiosemicarbazide moiety at 
the C-2 position and 3-nitrophenyl group at N-3 position of benzopyrimidines and 
studied their antitubercular, anti-HIV and antibacterial activities against
selected gram positive and negative bacteria. The target compounds
1-substituted-3-(3-(3-nitrophenyl)-4-oxo-3,4-dihydrobenzopyrimidin-2-ylamino)
isothioureas (PTS1 - PTS15: ) were obtained by the reaction of
2-hydrazino-3-(3-nitrophenyl) benzopyrimidin-4(3 H)-one (5: ) with different
alkyl/aryl isothiocyanates followed by methylation with dimethyl sulphate. All
synthesized compounds were screened for their antitubercular, anti-HIV and
antibacterial activity against selective gram positive and gram negative bacteria
by agar dilution method. Among the series, compound
2-methyl-3-(3-(3-nitrophenyl)-4-oxo-3,4-dihydrobenzopyrimidin-2-ylamino)-1-(3-chl
orophenyl)isothiourea (PTS14): shown most potent activity against Klebsiella
pneumoniae, Proteus vulgaris and Staphylococcus aureus; PTS14: exhibited the
antitubercular activity at the minimum microgram of 1.56 µg/mL and anti-HIV
activity at 0.96 µg/mL against HIV1 and HIV2 and offers potential for further
optimization and development to new antitubercular and anti-HIV agents. The
results obtained from this study confirm that the synthesized and biologically
evaluated benzopyrimidines showed promising antimicrobial, antitubercular and
anti-HIV activities and are new scaffolds for antimicrobial activity.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/a-0991-7617 
PMID: 32559773 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest. The 
authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the paper.

