
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Jul 31;10:369. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00369.
eCollection 2020.

Analysis of Resistance to Florfenicol and the Related Mechanism of Dissemination 
in Different Animal-Derived Bacteria.

Li P(1)(2)(3), Zhu T(1)(2)(3), Zhou D(1)(2), Lu W(1)(2), Liu H(1)(2), Sun
Z(1)(2), Ying J(1)(2), Lu J(1)(2), Lin X(1)(2)(3), Li K(1)(2)(3), Ying
J(1)(2)(3), Bao Q(1)(2)(3), Xu T(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics of Zhejiang Province, Key Laboratory of
Laboratory Medicine, Ministry of Education, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
China.
(2)School of Laboratory Medicine and Life Sciences, Wenzhou Medical University,
Wenzhou, China.
(3)Institute of Biomedical Informatics, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou,
China.
(4)Research Center for Translational Medicine, Shanghai East Hospital, Tongji
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(5)Institute of Translational Medicine, Baotou Central Hospital, Baotou, China.

Bacterial resistance to antibiotics has become an important concern for public
health. This study was aimed to investigate the characteristics and the
distribution of the florfenicol-related resistance genes in bacteria isolated
from four farms. A total of 106 florfenicol-resistant Gram-negative bacilli were 
examined for florfenicol-related resistance genes, and the positive isolates were
further characterized. The antimicrobial sensitivity results showed that most of 
them (100, 94.33%) belonged to multidrug resistance Enterobacteriaceae. About
91.51% of the strains carried floR gene, while 4.72% carried cfr gene. According 
to the pulsed-field gel electrophoresis results, 34 Escherichia coli were
subdivided into 22 profiles, the genetic similarity coefficient of which ranged
from 80.3 to 98.0%. The multilocus sequence typing (MLST) results revealed 17
sequence types (STs), with ST10 being the most prevalent. The genome sequencing
result showed that the Proteus vulgaris G32 genome consists of a 4.06-Mb
chromosome, a 177,911-bp plasmid (pG32-177), and a 51,686-bp plasmid (pG32-51). A
floR located in a drug-resistant region on the chromosome of P. vulgaris G32 was 
with IS91 family transposase, and the other floR gene on the plasmid pG32-177 was
with an ISCR2 insertion sequence. The cfr gene was located on the pG32-51 flanked
by IS26 element and TnpA26. This study suggested that the mobile genetic elements
played an important role in the replication of resistance genes and the
horizontal resistance gene transfer.

Copyright Â© 2020 Li, Zhu, Zhou, Lu, Liu, Sun, Ying, Lu, Lin, Li, Ying, Bao and
Xu.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00369 
PMCID: PMC7438884
PMID: 32903722 

