
1. Analyst. 2020 Sep 1. doi: 10.1039/d0an01001d. [Epub ahead of print]

Uracil-DNA-glycosylase-assisted loop-mediated isothermal amplification for
detection of bacteria from urine samples with reduced contamination.

Zeng Y(1), Liu M(1), Xia Y(1), Jiang X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Third Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou
Medical University, No. 63 Duobao Road, Liwan District, Guangzhou, Guangdong
510150, People's Republic of China. 377695944@qq.com.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Southern University of Science and
Technology, No. 1088 Xueyuan Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, Guangdong 518055, 
People's Republic of China. jiang@sustech.edu.cn and Beijing Engineering Research
Center for BioNanotechnology and CAS Key Laboratory for Biomedical Effects of
Nanomaterials and Nanosafety, CAS Center for Excellence in Nanoscience, National 
Center for NanoScience and Technology, No. 11 Zhongguancun Beiyitiao, Beijing
100190, People's Republic of China and University of Chinese Academy of Sciences,
19 A Yuquan Road, Shijingshan District, Beijing, People's Republic of China.

Loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) is a useful molecular biology
technology for analytical applications, but it is prone to contamination because 
of escaped aerosols, leading to false positive results. This report establishes
an integrated, rapid, and accurate method to detect bacteria in urine samples by 
incorporating uracil-DNA-glycosylase (UDG) into real-time loop-mediated
isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP). To do this, nucleic acids from five
clinically important uropathogens, including Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas
aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis, and Enterococcus faecalis, 
were directly captured and concentrated using Flinders Technology Associates
(FTA) Elute cards. Following elution, the extracted DNAs were specifically
amplified with sets of LAMP primers. The added UDG in the modified LAMP reaction 
excises uracils from previously amplified products or contaminants and generates 
apyrimidinic (AP) sites, reducing false positive rates. This UDG-assisted RT LAMP
strategy was able to degrade carryover contaminants to as little as 1 femtogram
(10-15 g). The assay showed a limit of detection of 104 CFU mL-1 with a
sensitivity of 94.1% and a specificity of 95.0%. Both the sensitivity and
specificity were improved compared to LAMP carried out without UDG. Our results
indicate that the UDG-assisted RT LAMP is of great potential for rapid and
precise analysis of nucleic acids in real applications.

DOI: 10.1039/d0an01001d 
PMID: 32894274 

