
1. Int J Pept Res Ther. 2020 Jul 22:1-21. doi: 10.1007/s10989-020-10094-8. [Epub
ahead of print]

Statistical and Artificial Neural Network Approaches to Modeling and Optimization
of Fermentation Conditions for Production of a Surface/Bioactive
Glyco-lipo-peptide.

Ekpenyong M(1), Asitok A(1), Antai S(1), Ekpo B(2)(3), Antigha R(4), Ogarekpe
N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Calabar, Calabar, Cross River State 
Nigeria.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Calabar, Calabar, Cross River State
Nigeria.
(3)Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Port Harcourt, Nigeria.
(4)Department of Civil Engineering, Cross River University of Technology,
Calabar, Cross River State Nigeria.

A freshwater alkaliphilic strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, grown on waste frying
oil-basal medium, produced a surface-active metabolite identified as
glycolipopeptide. Bioprocess conditions namely temperature, pH, agitation and
duration were comparatively modeled using statistical and artificial neural
network (ANN) methods to predict and optimize product yield using the matrix of a
central composite rotatable design (CCRD). Response surface methodology (RSM) was
the statistical approach while a feed-forward neural network, trained with
Levenberg-Marquardt back-propagation algorithm, was the neural network method.
Glycolipopeptide model was predicted by a significant (P < 0.001, R 2 of 0.9923) 
quadratic function of the RSM with a mean squared error (MSE) of 3.6661. The
neural network model, on the other hand, returned an R 2 value of 0.9964 with an 
MSE of 1.7844. From all error metrics considered, ANN glycolipopeptide model
significantly (P < 0.01) outperformed RSM counterpart in predictive modeling
capability. Optimization of factor levels for maximum glycolipopeptide
concentration produced bioprocess conditions of 32 °C for temperature, 7.6 for
pH, agitation speed of 130 rpm and a fermentation time of 66 h, at a combined
desirability function of 0.872. The glycosylated lipid-tailed peptide
demonstrated significant anti-bacterial activity (MIC = 8.125 µg/mL) against
Proteus vulgaris, dose-dependent anti-biofilm activities against Escherichia coli
(83%) and Candida dubliniensis (90%) in 24 h and an equally dose-dependent
cytotoxic activity against human breast (MCF-7: IC50 = 65.12 µg/mL) and cervical 
(HeLa: IC50 = 16.44 µg/mL) cancer cell lines. The glycolipopeptide compound is
recommended for further studies and trials for application in human cancer
therapy.

© Springer Nature B.V. 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s10989-020-10094-8 
PMCID: PMC7375705
PMID: 32837457 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that
there was no conflict of interest.

