
1. Nat Commun. 2020 Jun 1;11(1):2730. doi: 10.1038/s41467-020-16512-1.

AcrIF9 tethers non-sequence specific dsDNA to the CRISPR RNA-guided surveillance 
complex.

Hirschi M(1), Lu WT(2), Santiago-Frangos A(3), Wilkinson R(3), Golden SM(3),
Davidson AR(4), Lander GC(5), Wiedenheft B(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps
Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, CA, 92121, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Genetics, and Department of Biochemistry, University
of Toronto, 661 University Avenue, Room 1634, Toronto, ON, M5G 1M1, Canada.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Montana State University, 1156
South 11th Avenue, Bozeman, MT, 59717, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular Genetics, and Department of Biochemistry, University
of Toronto, 661 University Avenue, Room 1634, Toronto, ON, M5G 1M1, Canada.
Alan.davidson@utoronto.ca.
(5)Department of Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps
Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, CA, 92121, USA.
glander@scripps.edu.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Montana State University, 1156
South 11th Avenue, Bozeman, MT, 59717, USA. bwiedenheft@gmail.com.

Bacteria have evolved sophisticated adaptive immune systems, called CRISPR-Cas,
that provide sequence-specific protection against phage infection. In turn,
phages have evolved a broad spectrum of anti-CRISPRs that suppress these immune
systems. Here we report structures of anti-CRISPR protein IF9 (AcrIF9) in complex
with the type I-F CRISPR RNA-guided surveillance complex (Csy). In addition to
sterically blocking the hybridization of complementary dsDNA to the CRISPR RNA,
our results show that AcrIF9 binding also promotes non-sequence-specific
engagement with dsDNA, potentially sequestering the complex from target DNA.
These findings highlight the versatility of anti-CRISPR mechanisms utilized by
phages to suppress CRISPR-mediated immune systems.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-020-16512-1 
PMCID: PMC7264359
PMID: 32483187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

