
1. J Orthop Surg Res. 2020 Oct 1;15(1):449. doi: 10.1186/s13018-020-01972-4.

Incidence and risk factors for surgical site infection following elective foot
and ankle surgery: a retrospective study.

Meng J(1), Zhu Y(2), Li Y(3), Sun T(4), Zhang F(3), Qin S(3), Zhao H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, The 3rd Hospital of Hebei Medical
University, Shijiazhuang, 050051, Hebei, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Trauma Center, The 3rd Hospital of Hebei Medical
University, Shijiazhuang, 050051, Hebei, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Foot and Ankle Surgery, The 3rd Hospital of Hebei Medical
University, No. 139 Ziqiang Road, Shijiazhuang, 050051, Hebei, People's Republic 
of China.
(4)Department of Bone Tumor, The 3rd Hospital of Hebei Medical University,
Shijiazhuang, 050051, Hebei, People's Republic of China.
(5)Department of Foot and Ankle Surgery, The 3rd Hospital of Hebei Medical
University, No. 139 Ziqiang Road, Shijiazhuang, 050051, Hebei, People's Republic 
of China. drzhaohaitao@126.com.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to investigate the incidence of surgical site
infection (SSI) in elective foot and ankle surgeries and identify the associated 
risk factors.
METHODS: This was designed as a retrospective study, including patients who
underwent elective surgery of foot and ankle between July 2015 and June 2018.
Data on demographics, comorbidities, and perioperative parameters were collected 
from the medical records, the laboratory report, the operation report, and the
outpatient follow-up registration database. SSI was defined in accordance with
the Center for Disease Control criteria. Univariate and multivariate logistic
regression analyses were used to identify the independent risk factors for SSI.
RESULTS: A total of 1201 patients undergoing 1259 elective foot/ankle surgeries
were included, of whom 26 (2.1%) had an SSI, representing an incidence rate of
1.3% for superficial SSI and 0.8% for deep SSI, respectively. The results for
organism culture showed Pseudomonas aeruginosa in 7 cases, methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in 6, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus 
(MSSA) in 5, methicillin-resistant coagulase-negative Staphylococci (MRCNS) in 2,
Escherichia coli in 2, and Proteus mirabilis in 1 case. Five factors were
identified to be independently associated with SSI, including prolonged
preoperative stay (OR, 1.21; 95% CI, 1.09 to 1.30), allograft or bone substitute 
(OR, 3.76; 95% CI, 1.51 to 5.30), elevated FBG level (OR, 1.17; 95% CI, 1.04 to
1.26), lower ALB level (OR, 2.33; 95% CI, 1.19 to 3.05), and abnormal NEUT count 
(OR, 1.72; 95% CI, 1.27 to 2.12).
CONCLUSIONS: SSI following elective foot and ankle surgeries is low, but
relatively high in forefoot surgeries, requiring particular attention in clinical
practice. Although most not modifiable, these identified factors aid in risk
assessment of SSI and accordingly stratifying patients and therefore should be
kept in mind.

DOI: 10.1186/s13018-020-01972-4 
PMCID: PMC7528469
PMID: 33004062 

