
1. Photodiagnosis Photodyn Ther. 2020 Sep 2:101982. doi:
10.1016/j.pdpdt.2020.101982. [Epub ahead of print]

In vitro antimicrobial photodynamic therapy using tetra-cationic porphyrins
against multidrug-resistant bacteria isolated from canine otitis.

Seeger MG(1), Ries AS(2), Gressler LT(3), Botton SA(4), Iglesias BA(5),
Cargnelutti JF(6).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Residência em Área Profissional da Saúde, Universidade Federal de 
Santa Maria (UFSM), Santa Maria, RS, Brasil; Programa de Pós-Graduação em
Medicina Veterinária, Universidade Federal de Santa Maria (UFSM), Santa Maria,
RS, Brasil.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Medicina Veterinária, Universidade Federal de
Santa Maria (UFSM), Santa Maria, RS, Brasil.
(3)Laboratório de Microbiologia e Imunologia Veterinária, Instituto Federal
Farroupilha, Frederico Westphalen, RS, Brasil.
(4)Departamento de Medicina Veterinária Preventiva (DMVP), Centro de Ciências
Rurais (CCR), UFSM, Santa Maria, RS, Brasil.
(5)Laboratório de Bioinorgânica e Materiais Porfirínicos, Departamento de
Química, UFSM, Santa Maria, RS, Brasil. Electronic address:
bernardopgq@gmail.com.
(6)Departamento de Medicina Veterinária Preventiva (DMVP), Centro de Ciências
Rurais (CCR), UFSM, Santa Maria, RS, Brasil. Electronic address:
jucargnelutti@gmail.com.

Antimicrobial-resistant bacteria have been frequently isolated from canine
otitis. Photodynamic therapy using porphyrins as photosensitizing molecules is an
alternative therapy against microorganisms in localized infections. Therefore, we
evaluated the antibacterial activity of two tetra-cationic porphyrins (H2TMeP and
ZnTMeP) against gram-positive and -negative bacteria isolated from canine otitis,
as well as its putative action mechanism. For this, two gram-positive and two
gram-negative bacteria frequently detected in cases of canine otitis
(coagulase-positive and -negative staphylococci [CPS and CNS], Pseudomonas
aeruginosa, and Proteus mirabilis) were used in antibacterial activity assays.
Each porphyrin at a non-cytotoxic dose was incubated with a fixed concentration
of each bacterium and exposed to white-light irradiation for 0, 30, 60, and
90 min. Clinical isolates of CPS and CNS were photo-inactivated after 30 min of
white-light exposure by both porphyrins (p < 0.05). Gram-negative bacteria were
also photo-inactivated after 30 min (p < 0.05), reaching complete inactivation
after 60 and 90 min of white-light irradiation by H2TMeP and ZnTMeP,
respectively. Antibacterial assays using standard bacterial strains (ATCCs)
demonstrated similar results to those obtained with clinical isolates, except for
P. aeruginosa, which was completely inactivated by ZnTMeP at 60 min, and the
absence of a significant reduction in P. mirabilis concentration when irradiated 
for 30 min. Similar assays were conducted using reactive oxygen species
scavengers showing that the putative mechanism for bacterial inactivation is
through the production of singlet oxygen species. These results indicated that
H2TMeP and ZnTMeP tetra-cationic porphyrins were effective against bacteria
isolated from canine otitis.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pdpdt.2020.101982 
PMID: 32890692 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare no conflict of interest.

