
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Aug 14;10:414. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00414.
eCollection 2020.

Proteus mirabilis Biofilm: Development and Therapeutic Strategies.

Wasfi R(1), Hamed SM(1), Amer MA(1), Fahmy LI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Pharmacy, October
University for Modern Sciences and Arts (MSA), Giza, Egypt.

Proteus mirabilis is a Gram negative bacterium that is a frequent cause of
catheter-associated urinary tract infections (CAUTIs). Its ability to cause such 
infections is mostly related to the formation of biofilms on catheter surfaces.
In order to form biofilms, P. mirabilis expresses a number of virulence factors. 
Such factors may include adhesion proteins, quorum sensing molecules,
lipopolysaccharides, efflux pumps, and urease enzyme. A unique feature of P.
mirabilis biofilms that build up on catheter surfaces is their crystalline nature
owing to their ureolytic biomineralization. This leads to catheter encrustation
and blockage and, in most cases, is accompanied by urine retention and ascending 
UTIs. Bacteria embedded in crystalline biofilms become highly resistant to
conventional antimicrobials as well as the immune system. Being refractory to
antimicrobial treatment, alternative approaches for eradicating P. mirabilis
biofilms have been sought by many studies. The current review focuses on the
mechanism by which P. mirabilis biofilms are formed, and a state of the art
update on preventing biofilm formation and reduction of mature biofilms. These
treatment approaches include natural, and synthetic compounds targeting virulence
factors and quorum sensing, beside other strategies that include carrier-mediated
diffusion of antimicrobials into biofilm matrix. Bacteriophage therapy has also
shown successful results in vitro for combating P. mirabilis biofilms either
merely through their lytic effect or by acting as facilitators for antimicrobials
diffusion.

Copyright Â© 2020 Wasfi, Hamed, Amer and Fahmy.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00414 
PMCID: PMC7456845
PMID: 32923408 

