
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Sep 24;149:104536. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104536. [Epub 
ahead of print]

High incidence and characteristic of PRRSV and resistant bacterial Co-Infection
in pig farms.

XiangjinYan(1), Zeng J(1), Li X(2), Zhang Z(1), Din AU(3), Zhao K(4), Zhou Y(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathogenic Biology, School of Basic Medicine, Southwest Medical 
University, Luzhou, Sichuan, China.
(2)Animal Centre for Disease Control and Prevention of Luzhou, Sichuan, China.
(3)Drug Discovery Research Center, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, Sichuan,
China.
(4)Antibiotics Research and Re-evaluation Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province,
Sichuan Industrial Institute of Antibiotics, Chengdu University, Chengdu,
Sichuan, China. Electronic address: zhaokelei@cdu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Pathogenic Biology, School of Basic Medicine, Southwest Medical 
University, Luzhou, Sichuan, China. Electronic address: yingshunzhou@swmu.edu.cn.

Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus (PRRSV) and resistant
bacterial co-infection is a serious threat to pig farms. This study was aimed to 
determine the characteristics of the co-infection of PRRSV with resistant
bacterial strains in pig farms. The presence of the PRRSV orf5 gene was confirmed
by RT-PCR from 395 samples. Bacterial strains were isolated from PRRSV positive
samples. Antimicrobial drug susceptibility was determined by the Kirby-Bauer
method. Resistant genes were determined by PCR amplification and sequencing. The 
whole genome of carbapenems resistant E.coli was sequenced and analyse. A total
of 75 samples were PRRSV positive, and 45 different orf5 sequences were finally
determined. Phylogenetic analysis showed that 45 sequences are clustered into
four groups, including JXA1-like, NADC30-like, GD-QY2-like, and CH-1a-like
viruses. Twenty-one samples were identified with PRRSV and amoxicillin resistance
bacterial co-infection, and 23 were found with amoxicillin resistance (including 
15 Escherichia coli, 3 Klebsiella pneumoniae, 2 Haemophilus parasuis, 1
Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae, 1 Pasteurella multocida, and 1 Proteus
mirabilis). All bacterial strains were resistant to the most commonantibiotics
and were carriers of a large number of resistance genes. Whole-genome sequencing 
of E. coli ScEc7 yielded 113 scaffolds of genome DNA, one IncX3 plasmid
pScEc7-NDM-5 (46,161 bp) and one IncF plasmid pScEc7-CTX-M (129,978 bp). It
carries19 resistance genes, 8 virulence factors, and several mobile genetic
elements. The results obtained let us to concluded that: (1) Co-infection is
common in pig farms. (2) The orf5 gene continues to undergo its sequences
divergence. (3) The bacterial carrying diverse resistance genes were resistant to
most of the commonly used antibiotics. (4) Carbapenems resistant isolate has a
large number of resistance genes, virulence factors, and MGEs. Therefore,
continuous study of the characteristic of PRRSV and resistant bacterial
co-infection is necessary for healthy pig aquaculture.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104536 
PMID: 32980472 

