
1. Zhonghua Shao Shang Za Zhi. 2020 Jul 20;36(7):540-546. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.cn501120-20200304-00118.

[Effect of modified double negative-pressure wound therapy combined with
debridement and tension-reduced suture in treatment of patients with stage 4
pressure sores and infection in sacrococcygeal region and its surrounding area].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Miao YY(1), Zhang WC(1), Han XB(2), Wang ZX(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Burns and Plastic Surgery and Cosmetology, Linyi People's
Hospital of Shandong Province, Dezhou 251500, China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Linyi Central Hospital, Linyi 276400, China.

Objective: To investigate the effect of modified double negative-pressure wound
therapy combined with debridement and tension-reduced suture in treatment of
stage 4 pressure sores and infection in sacrococcygeal region and its surrounding
area. Methods: From January 2015 to June 2019, 20 patients with stage 4 pressure 
sores and infection in sacrococcygeal region and its surrounding area were
admitted to Department of Burns and Plastic Surgery and Cosmetology of Linyi
People's Hospital. Among them, there were 11 males and 9 females, aged 48 to 88
years. The wounds of 13 patients were located in the sacrococcygeal region, and 8
of them had exposed sacrococcyx. The wounds of 4 patients were located in the
greater trochanter area of femur, and the wounds of 3 patients were located in
the ischial tuberosity area. All the patients had fever in different degree,
bacterial infection, hypoproteinemia, and electrolyte imbalance, etc. at
admission. After thorough debridement and dressing change, routine
negative-pressure wound therapy with negative pressure value of -16.6 kPa was
performed according to the scope of lesions in period Ⅰ. When granulation tissue 
was fresh with less exudate and without residual necrotic tissue, modified double
negative-pressure wound therapy in combination with debridement and
tension-reduced suture was performed immediately in period Ⅱ. Modified double
negative-pressure wound therapy were persistently performed through negative
pressure drainage tube inserted into deep part of wounds and negative pressure
drainage tube on surface at the same time, with superficial negative pressure
value of -19.9 kPa. Meanwhile, systemic anti-infection and nutritional supports
were given. The wounds were monitored for the grade of wound healing and whether 
skin necrosis, split, or fluid accumulation develop at the suture site. The
patients were followed up for 1 to 6 months after discharge to monitor wound
healing. Length of hospital stay, infection condition before and after the
debridement and tension-reduced suture, and complications during treatment were
recorded. Results: All wounds achieved first grade healing, with the skin at the 
suture site healed without split, fluid accumulation, or necrosis. The patients
were followed up for 1 to 6 months after discharge, with good shape of surgical
incision, little pigmentation on the skin, no hypertrophic scar or contracture,
and no recurrence of pressure sores. Length of hospital stay of patients was 24
to 33 d, with an average of 28.5 d. Before debridement and tension-reduced
suture, 2 cases were infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa, 1 case was infected
with Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus, and 1 case was infected with
Proteus mirabilis. The results of bacterial culture were all negative after
debridement and tension-reduced suture. During the treatment, all patients were
not complicated with bone or joint infection, necrotizing fasciitis, septicemia, 
etc. Conclusions: Modified double negative-pressure wound therapy combined with
debridement and tension-reduced suture for treatment of patients with stage 4
pressure sores and infection in sacrococcygeal region and its surrounding area is
easy to operate with minimal injury, easy for patients to accept with a very high
level of satisfaction, and is suitable to popularize and applicate for primary
hospitals.

Publisher: 目的： 探讨改良双负压疗法联合清创减张缝合术治疗骶尾部及周围4期压疮并感染患者的疗效。 方法：
2015年1月—2019年6月，临邑县人民医院烧伤整形美容外科收治20例骶尾部及周围4期压疮并感染患者，其中男11例、女9例，年龄48～88岁，13例患者创面位于
骶尾部，其中8例见骶尾骨外露；4例患者创面位于股骨大转子区，3例患者创面位于坐骨结节区。入院时患者均有不同程度发热、细菌感染、低蛋白血症及电解质紊乱等。Ⅰ期根据病
变累及范围彻底清创、换药后行常规负压治疗，负压值为-16.6
kPa；待肉芽组织新鲜、渗出少、无坏死组织残留时，立即行Ⅱ期改良双负压疗法联合清创减张缝合术，其中改良双负压疗法为创面深部置入负压引流导管与表层负压引流导管同时实
施持续负压吸引，表层负压值为-19.9
kPa。同时予以全身抗感染及营养支持等治疗。观察创面愈合等级，缝合处皮肤有无坏死、裂开或积液，出院后随访1～6个月，观察创面愈合情况，记录患者住院时间、清创减张缝
合术前后感染情况、治疗过程中有无并发症。 结果：
创面均甲级愈合，缝合处皮肤无裂开或积液、坏死。出院后随访1～6个月，术口外形良好，皮肤少量色素沉着，无瘢痕增生或挛缩，压疮均未复发。本组患者住院时间为24～33 
d，平均28.5
d。清创减张缝合术前，2例患者创面感染铜绿假单胞菌、1例患者创面混合感染大肠杆菌与金黄色葡萄球菌、1例患者创面感染奇异变形杆菌；术后再次行细菌学培养，结果均呈阴性
。治疗期间患者均未并发骨或关节感染、坏死性筋膜炎、败血症等。 结论：
改良双负压疗法联合清创减张缝合术治疗骶尾部及周围4期压疮并感染患者，操作简单、创伤小、患者易于接受且对效果满意度较高，适合基层医院推广应用。.
DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn501120-20200304-00118 
PMID: 32842400 

