
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jun 30;11:1374. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01374. eCollection 
2020.

CexE Is a Coat Protein and Virulence Factor of Diarrheagenic Pathogens.

Rivas ZP(1), Talbot KM(1), Merselis LC(1), McCormack RM(1), Adkins B(1), Munson
GP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Miami Miller School
of Medicine, Miami, FL, United States.

CexE is a 12 kDa protein that was originally reported to be present in just three
strains of enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC); a frequent cause of diarrheal
illnesses worldwide. However, an examination of sequenced genomes has revealed
that CexE is actually present in a majority of ETEC strains. In addition,
homologs of CexE are present in enteroaggregative E. coli (EAEC), Yersinia
enterocolitica, Providencia alcalifaciens, and Citrobacter rodentium. Although it
has been hypothesized that CexE and its homologs are virulence factors, this has 
yet to be tested. Thus the primary aim of this study was to determine if these
proteins contribute to pathogenicity. Our secondary aim was determine if they are
secreted coat proteins. Here we report that all neonatal mice infected with a
wild-type strain of C. rodentium perished. In contrast a cexE mutant was
significantly attenuated with 45% neonate survival. In adult mice the wild-type
strain reached significantly higher loads in the large intestines and were shed
in greater numbers than cexE mutants. Secretion of the CexE homolog in EAEC is
dependent upon an atypical Type I secretion system that accepts its client from
the periplasm rather than the cytoplasm. Insertion mutants of cexC, the putative 
ATPase of the CexE secretion system, were attenuated in our murine model. In
vitro we found that CexC is required for the secretion of CexE to the outer
membranes of both ETEC and C. rodentium. Secretion is not constitutive because
CexE accumulates in the periplasm when the two pathogens are cultured under
noninducing conditions. Although secretion conditions differ between ETEC and C. 
rodentium, secreted CexE remains predominantly associated with the outer
membranes of both species. In aggregate these findings demonstrate that CexE is a
secreted coat protein and virulence factor that promotes colonization of host
intestinal tissues by enteric pathogens.

Copyright Â© 2020 Rivas, Talbot, Merselis, McCormack, Adkins and Munson.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01374 
PMCID: PMC7344145
PMID: 32714302 

