
1. J Hazard Mater. 2019 Oct 15;378:120606. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2019.04.089. Epub 
2019 May 1.

Removal of dimethachlon from soils using immobilized cells and enzymes of a novel
potential degrader Providencia stuartii JD.

Zhang C(1), Pan X(2), Wu X(3), Dong F(2), Liu X(2), Xu J(2), Wu X(2), Li M(1),
Zheng Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Protection, College of Agriculture, Guizhou University,
Guiyang, Guizhou, 550025, PR China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, Institute
of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 100193, PR
China.
(3)Department of Plant Protection, College of Agriculture, Guizhou University,
Guiyang, Guizhou, 550025, PR China. Electronic address: xmwu@gzu.edu.cn.

The first potential degrader capable of detoxifying dimethachlon (NDPS) was
isolated and identified as Providencia stuartii JD, whose free cells and freely
crude enzymes degraded more than 80% and 90% of 50 mg L-1 NDPS in liquid culture 
within 7 d and 2 h, respectively. Strain JD metabolized NDPS through the typical 
pathway, in which NDPS was firstly transformed into succinic acid and 3,
5-dichloroanilin, and the latter was then converted to phenol, which was
subsequently degraded to muconic acid further subjected to the mineralization.
The immobilization obviously improved the stability and adaptability of cells and
enzymes. In laboratory non-sterile soils treated by free or immobilized cells and
enzymes, 50 mg kg-1 NDPS decreased to 15.66 and 13.32 mg kg-1, or 8.32 and
2.18 mg kg-1 within 7 d, respectively. In field, immobilized cells and enzymes
exhibited significantly higher efficiencies in removing 20.250 kg a.i. ha-1 NDPS 
wettable powder from soils after 9 d (96.02% and 98.56%) than free cells and
enzymes (79.35% and 66.45%). This study highlights that strain JD promises the
great potential to remove hazardous NDPS residues and its immobilized cells and
enzymes possess the more promising advantages in the bioremediation of
NDPS-contaminated soils in situ.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2019.04.089 
PMID: 31326122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

