
1. J Glob Antimicrob Resist. 2020 Mar;20:178-182. doi: 10.1016/j.jgar.2019.07.013.
Epub 2019 Jul 17.

Genome-based insights into the resistomes and mobilomes of two Providencia
rettgeri strains isolated from wound infections in Madagascar.

Tchuinte PLS(1), Rabenandrasana MAN(2), Ramparany L(2), Ratsima E(2), Enouf V(3),
Randrianirina F(2), Collard JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur de Madagascar, Antananarivo, Madagascar. Electronic address: 
simolandrie@yahoo.fr.
(2)Institut Pasteur de Madagascar, Antananarivo, Madagascar.
(3)Institut Pasteur, Pasteur International Bioresources network (PIBnet),
Plateforme de Microbiologie Mutualisée (P2M), Paris, France.

OBJECTIVES: A molecular analysis was performed of two Providencia rettgeri (P.
rettgeri) strains (Pr 297 and Pr 269) collected in 2007 and 2009 from wound swabs
of patients admitted to the intensive care units at Joseph Ravoangy
Andrianavalona hospital and the Military Hospital in Antananarivo, Madagascar.
METHODS: The two P. rettgeri isolates were subjected to susceptibility testing.
Whole genome sequencing was performed to characterise the antibiotic resistance
genes, genomic islands and mobilomes (integrons, plasmids and insertion
sequences).
RESULTS: All isolates were found to be multidrug-resistant. Antibiotic-resistant 
genes described were amongst eight different classes of antimicrobial agents.
Thirty insertion sequences and twelve genomic islands were predicted in each
genome. Class 1 and class 2 integrons were found in both genomes, with gene
cassette regions encompassing arr-2 - cmlA5 - blaOXA-10 - ant (3")-Ia and dfrA1 -
sat2 - ant (3")-Ia - orfX, respectively. IncA/C2, ColM and ColE1-like plasmids
were described harbouring blaCMY-30, qnrD and aac(6')-Ib-cr4 genes, respectively.
Phylogenetic analysis showed that Pr 297 and Pr 269 isolates were genetically
identical and clustered with P. rettgeri strains described in the USA and Spain.
CONCLUSIONS: It is believed that this is the first molecular characterisation of 
wound infection pathogens from Madagascan patients and the first description of
P. rettgeri co-producing CMY-30, OXA-10 and AAC(6')-Ib-cr4 enzymes. The diversity
of the resistance determinants and mobile genetic elements was probably due to
extensive horizontal gene transfer events, highlighting the need to conduct
further molecular monitoring studies to understand the genomic plasticity of
resistant bacteria in Madagascan hospitals.

Copyright © 2019 International Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy. Published 
by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgar.2019.07.013 
PMID: 31325615 

