
1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2020 Aug 17. pii: AAC.00382-20. doi:
10.1128/AAC.00382-20. [Epub ahead of print]

Emergence of carbapenem-resistant Providencia rettgeri and Providencia stuartti
producing IMP-type metallo-β-lactamase in Japan.

Iwata S(1), Tada T(1), Hishinuma T(1), Mari T(1), Satoshi O(1), Arai-Kuwahara
K(1), Ogawa M(2), Shimojima M(2), Kirikae T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Juntendo University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.
(2)BML Inc., Kawagoe, Saitama, Japan.

Four Providencia rettgeri isolates and a Providencia stuartii isolate were
obtained from urine samples of five patients in 2018 in Japan. All the isolates
were resistant to imipenem and meropenem. Of them, three were highly resistant to
both carbapenems with the minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of 512 μg/ml. 
The three highly carbapenem-resistant isolates harbored bla IMP-70, encoding a
variant of IMP-1 metallo-β-lactamase with two amino acid substitutions of
Val67Phe and Phe87Val, and the other two harbored bla IMP-1 and bla IMP-11,
respectively. Whole genome sequencing revealed that an isolate harbored two
copies of bla IMP-1 on the chromosome, and that the other four harbored a copy of
bla IMP-11 or bla IMP-70 in a plasmid. Expression of bla IMP-70 conferred
carbapenem resistance in Escherichia coli Recombinant IMP-70 and an IMP-1 variant
with Val67Phe, but not with Phe87Val, had significant higher hydrolytic
activities against meropenem than recombinant IMP-1, indicating that an amino
acid substitution of Val67Phe affects increased activities against meropenem in
IMP-70. These results suggest that Providencia spp. become higher resistant to
carbapenems by acquisition of two copies of bla IMP-1 or by mutation of bla IMPs 
with amino acid substitutions such as bla IMP-70.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00382-20 
PMID: 32816727 

