
1. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 Aug 14. doi: 10.1007/s10096-020-04006-3.
[Epub ahead of print]

Characterization of 16S rRNA methylase genes in Enterobacterales and Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa in Athens Metropolitan area, 2015-2016.

Nafplioti K(1), Souli M(1), Adamou P(1), Moraitou E(2), Giannopoulou P(3), Chra
P(4), Damala M(5), Vogiatzakis E(2), Trikka-Graphakos E(3), Baka V(4), Prifti
E(5), Antoniadou A(1), Galani I(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)4th Department of Internal Medicine, Infectious Diseases Laboratory, National 
and Kapodistrian University of Athens, School of Medicine, Athens, Greece.
(2)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Sotiria General Hospital of Chest
Diseases, Athens, Greece.
(3)Microbiology Department, "Thriasio" General Hospital of Elefsina, Athens,
Greece.
(4)Microbiology Department, Korgialenio Benakio Hellenic Red Cross Hospital,
Athens, Greece.
(5)Microbiology Department, "Alexandra" General Hospital of Athens, Athens,
Greece.
(6)4th Department of Internal Medicine, Infectious Diseases Laboratory, National 
and Kapodistrian University of Athens, School of Medicine, Athens, Greece.
egalani@med.uoa.gr.
(7)University General Hospital "ATTIKON", Rimini 1, 124 62, Chaidari, Greece.
egalani@med.uoa.gr.

The aim of this study was to characterize the 16S rRNA methylase (RMT) genes in
aminoglycoside-resistant Enterobacterales and Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates in 
2015-2016 in hospitals in Athens, Greece. Single-patient, Gram-negative clinical 
isolates resistant to both amikacin and gentamicin (n = 292) were consecutively
collected during a two-year period (2015-2016) in five tertiary care hospitals in
Athens. RMT genes were detected by PCR. In all RMT-producing isolates, ESBL and
carbapenemase production was confirmed by PCR, and the clonal relatedness and the
plasmid contents were also characterized. None of the 138 P. aeruginosa isolates 
harbored any of the RMT genes surveyed although some were highly resistant to
aminoglycosides (MICs > = 512 mg/L). Among 154 Enterobacterales, 31 Providencia
stuartii (93.9%), 42 Klebsiella pneumoniae (37.8%), six Proteus mirabilis (75%), 
and two Escherichia coli (100%) isolates were confirmed as highly resistant to
amikacin, gentamicin, and tobramycin with MICs â‰¥ 512 mg/L, harboring mainly the
rmtB (98.8%). All were carbapenemase producers. P. stuartii, P. mirabilis, and E.
coli produced VIM-type carbapenemases. K. pneumoniae produced KPC- (n = 34,
81.0%), OXA-48 (n = 4, 9.5%), KPC- and VIM- (n = 3, 7.1%), or only VIM-type (n = 
1, 2.4%) enzymes. Two groups of similar IncC plasmids were detected one harboring
rmtB1, blaVEB-1, blaOXA-10, and blaTEM-1, and the other additionally blaVIM-1 and
blaSHV-5. Among RMT-producing Enterobacterales, rmtB1 predominated and was
associated with carbapenemase-encoding gene(s). Similar IncC plasmids carrying a 
multiresistant region, including ESBL genes, and in the case of VIM-producing
isolates, the blaVIM-1, were responsible for this dissemination. The
co-dissemination of these genes poses a public health threat.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-020-04006-3 
PMID: 32794063 

