
1. ACS Omega. 2020 Mar 23;5(13):7379-7391. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.9b04410.
eCollection 2020 Apr 7.

Stabilization of Various Zero-Valent Metal Nanoparticles on a Superabsorbent
Polymer for the Removal of Dyes, Nitrophenol, and Pathogenic Bacteria.

Ali HSHM(1), Khan SA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz
University, KSA, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Swabi, Swabi Anbar23561, Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.

In this work, a superabsorbent polymer, sodium polyacrylate, also known as water 
ball (WB), loaded with Ni, Cu, and Ag zero-valent metal nanoparticles (MNPs) was 
applied for environmental remediation. WBs loaded with Ni, Cu, and Ag NPs were
evaluated for their catalytic performance against the reduction of 4-nitrophenol 
(4-NP) to 4-aminophenol (4-AP) and decolorization of methyl orange (MO), Congo
red (CR), and methylene blue (MB) dyes. The apparent rate constants (K app) for
the reduction of 4-NP to 4-AP in the presence of Ni, Cu, and Ag NPs were 2.1 ×
10-1, 2.9 × 10-1, and 4.6 × 10-1 min-1, respectively, indicating the strongest
activity of WB loaded with Ag NPs as compared to the other two catalysts.
Similarly, WB loaded with Ag NPs showed the highest K app values compared to the 
other two catalysts. Among all of the bacteria studied, except Providencia
stuartii and Streptococcus mutans, the zone of inhibition of Ag was higher as
compared to that of the Ni and Cu NPs, however, slightly low from that of the
reference standard tetracycline TE30. Furthermore, the synthesized catalysts were
extensively characterized through X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier-transform
infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), field emission
scanning electron microscopy (FESEM), and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) 
analyses.

Copyright © 2020 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.9b04410 
PMCID: PMC7144176
PMID: 32280879 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interest.

