
1. Infect Immun. 2019 Dec 17;88(1). pii: e00691-19. doi: 10.1128/IAI.00691-19. Print
2019 Dec 17.

A Rare Opportunist, Morganella morganii, Decreases Severity of Polymicrobial
Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infection.

Learman BS(1), Brauer AL(1), Eaton KA(2), Armbruster CE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Jacobs School of Medicine and
Biomedical Sciences, State University of New York at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York, 
USA.
(2)Laboratory Animal Medicine Unit, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann
Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Jacobs School of Medicine and
Biomedical Sciences, State University of New York at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York, 
USA chelsiea@buffalo.edu.

Catheter-associated urinary tract infections (CAUTIs) are common
hospital-acquired infections and frequently polymicrobial, which complicates
effective treatment. However, few studies experimentally address the consequences
of polymicrobial interactions within the urinary tract, and the clinical
significance of polymicrobial bacteriuria is not fully understood. Proteus
mirabilis is one of the most common causes of monomicrobial and polymicrobial
CAUTI and frequently cocolonizes with Enterococcus faecalis, Escherichia coli,
Providencia stuartii, and Morganella morganii P. mirabilis infections are
particularly challenging due to its potent urease enzyme, which facilitates
formation of struvite crystals, catheter encrustation, blockage, and formation of
urinary stones. We previously determined that interactions between P. mirabilis
and other uropathogens can enhance P. mirabilis urease activity, resulting in
greater disease severity during experimental polymicrobial infection. Our present
work reveals that M. morganii acts on P. mirabilis in a contact-independent
manner to decrease urease activity. Furthermore, M. morganii actively prevents
urease enhancement by E. faecalis, P. stuartii, and E. coli Importantly, these
interactions translate to modulation of disease severity during experimental
CAUTI, predominantly through a urease-dependent mechanism. Thus, products
secreted by multiple bacterial species in the milieu of the catheterized urinary 
tract can directly impact prognosis.

Copyright Â© 2019 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.00691-19 
PMCID: PMC6921659
PMID: 31611275  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

