
1. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 2020 Apr;38(4):166-169. doi:
10.1016/j.eimc.2019.07.010. Epub 2019 Oct 10.

Susceptibility evolution to antibiotics of Enterobacter cloacae, Morganella
morganii, Klebsiella aerogenes and Citrobacter freundii involved in urinary tract
infections: an 11-year epidemiological surveillance study.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Jiménez-Guerra G(1), Borrego-Jiménez J(1), Gutiérrez-Soto B(2), Expósito-Ruiz
M(3), Navarro-Marí JM(1), Gutiérrez-Fernández J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiología, Hospital Universitario Virgen de las Nieves,
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria-Granada, Granada, España.
(2)Unidad de Medicina de Familia, Centro de Salud San Fernando, Badajoz, España.
(3)Unidad de Metodología de la Investigación y Bioestadística, Hospital
Universitario Virgen de las Nieves, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria-Granada,
Granada, España.
(4)Departamento de Microbiología, Hospital Universitario Virgen de las Nieves,
Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria-Granada, Granada, España; Departamento de
Microbiología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Granada, Instituto de
Investigación Sanitaria-Granada, Granada, España. Electronic address:
josegf@go.ugr.es.

INTRODUCTION: The objective of this study was to analyse the susceptibility to
antibiotic of Citrobacter freundii, Klebsiella aerogenes, Enterobacter cloacae,
Serratia marcescens, Providencia stuartii and Morganella morganii (CESPM group), 
detected in urine cultures.
METHODS: Between 2006 and 2016 we analyzed CESPM group Enterobacteria isolated
from urine cultures from both primary health-care centers and Hospital Virgen de 
las Nieves (Granada). We studied the susceptibility to aminoglycosides,
fosfomycin, nitrofurantoin, quinolones, piperacillin/tazobactam, cefepime,
imipenem and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole following CLSI interpretation
criteria.
RESULTS: A total of 736 isolates were studied: 30.57% E. cloacae, 23.50% M.
morganii, 20.38% K. aerogenes, 10.32% C. freundii, 8.83% S. marcescens and 6.38% 
P. stuartii. A significant decrease in the antibiotic susceptibility was
observed. Gentamicin, ciprofloxacin, imipenem and cefepime showed susceptibility 
over 80%.
CONCLUSIONS: E. cloacae, M. morganii and K. aerogenes were the most common
isolates. Cefepime and imipenem are still a good empiric therapeutic alternative 
given its activity in vitro.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier España, S.L.U. and Sociedad Española de Enfermedades
Infecciosas y Microbiología Clínica. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eimc.2019.07.010 
PMID: 31606242 

