
1. Infect Genet Evol. 2020 Jan;77:104065. doi: 10.1016/j.meegid.2019.104065. Epub
2019 Oct 18.

Genetic analysis of carbapenemase-producing Gram-negative bacteria isolated from 
a university teaching hospital in Egypt.

Soliman AM(1), Zarad HO(2), Nariya H(3), Shimamoto T(3), Shimamoto T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Food Microbiology and Hygiene, Graduate School of Biosphere
Science, Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8528, Japan; Department of
Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kafrelsheikh University, Kafr
El-Sheikh 33516, Egypt.
(2)Laboratory of Food Microbiology and Hygiene, Graduate School of Biosphere
Science, Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8528, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Food Microbiology and Hygiene, Graduate School of Integrated
Sciences for Life, Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8528, Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Food Microbiology and Hygiene, Graduate School of Integrated
Sciences for Life, Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8528, Japan.
Electronic address: tadashis@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.

A total of 65 non-replicate Gram-negative bacterial strains were recovered from
clinical specimens between April and September 2014 at a University Hospital in
Egypt. This collection was screened by PCR for carbapenemase-encoding genes, 16S 
rRNA methylases, and colistin resistance genes (mcr-1-mcr-8). Twenty-two strains 
(22/65, 33.8%) were positive for carbapenemase-encoding genes [13 NDM-1-producers
(four Escherichia coli, two Klebsiella pneumoniae, and seven Providencia
stuartii), two E. coli co-carrying NDM-5 and OXA-181, and seven Pseudomonas
aeruginosa (three VIM-2, four VIM-24) strains]. The 16S rRNA methylase RmtC was
detected in 12 NDM-1-producers for the first time in Egypt; no mcr genes were
detected. A self-transmissible A/C plasmid was found to carry blaNDM-1 in all
NDM-1-producing strains. NDM-5 and OXA-181 were located on an untypeable and
IncX3 plasmid, respectively. Additionally, Enterobacterial repetitive intergenic 
consensus (ERIC)-PCR revealed five clonally related P. stuartii isolates
collected over a 1.5-month period. Thirteen carbapenemase-producing strains were 
isolated from burn patients who are at a high risk of developing infections and
require special medical care. To our knowledge, this is the first report of
NDM-1-producing-P. stuartii strains in an African burn unit, NDM-1- and
RmtC-positive non-lactose fermenting E. coli globally, VIM-24-producing P.
aeruginosa in Africa, and 16S RMTase rmtC-NDM-1-producers in Egypt. This work
highlights the detection of different carbapenemase-producing bacterial strains
within an Egyptian teaching hospital compromising the effectiveness of
carbapenems and urgently asking the Egyptian medical authorities for
implementation of antimicrobial surveillance plans and infection control policies
to early detect and to effectively halt the rapid spread of these superbugs.

Copyright Â© 2019. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meegid.2019.104065 
PMID: 31634643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

