
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jan 23;8(2). pii: E161. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8020161.

Salmonella Genomic Island 1 is Broadly Disseminated within
Gammaproteobacteriaceae.

Cummins ML(1)(2), Hamidian M(1), Djordjevic SP(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Ithree Institute, University of Technology Sydney, Ultimo, NSW 2007,
Australia.
(2)Australian Centre for Genomic Epidemiological Microbiology, University of
Technology Sydney, PO Box 123, Broadway, NSW 2007, Australia.

Salmonella genomic island 1 (SGI1) is an integrative mobilisable element that
plays an important role in the capture and spread of multiple drug resistance. To
date, SGI1 has been found in clinical isolates of Salmonella enterica serovars,
Proteus mirabilis, Morganella morganii, Acinetobacter baumannii, Providencia
stuartii, Enterobacter spp, and recently in Escherichia coli. SGI1 preferentially
targets the 3Â´-end of trmE, a conserved gene found in the Enterobacteriaceae and 
among members of the Gammaproteobacteria. It is, therefore, hypothesised that
SGI1 and SGI1-related elements (SGI1-REs) may have been acquired by diverse
bacterial genera. Here, Bitsliced Genomic Signature Indexes (BIGSI) was used to
screen the NCBI Sequence Read Archive (SRA) for putative SGI1-REs in
Gammaproteobacteria. Novel SGI-REs were identified in diverse genera including
Cronobacter spp, Klebsiella spp, and Vibrio spp and in two additional isolates of
Escherichia coli. An extensively drug-resistant human clonal lineage of
Klebsiella pneumoniae carrying an SGI1-RE in the United Kingdom and an SGI1-RE
that lacks a class 1 integron were also identified. These findings provide
insight into the origins of this diverse family of clinically important genomic
islands and expand the knowledge of the potential host range of SGI1-REs within
the Gammaproteobacteria.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8020161 
PMCID: PMC7074787
PMID: 31979280 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

