
1. Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek. 2020 Sep 20. doi: 10.1007/s10482-020-01469-4. [Epub
ahead of print]

Isolation and genomic characterization of a pathogenic Providencia rettgeri
strain G0519 in turtle Trachemys scripta.

Ye M(1), Hu X(1), Lü A(2), Sun J(1), Chen C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tianjin Key Lab of Aqua-Ecology and Aquaculture, College of Fisheries, Tianjin
Agricultural University, Tianjin, 300384, China.
(2)Tianjin Key Lab of Aqua-Ecology and Aquaculture, College of Fisheries, Tianjin
Agricultural University, Tianjin, 300384, China. lajand@126.com.

Providencia rettgeri infection has occurred occasionally in aquaculture, but is
rare in turtles. Here, a pathogenic P. rettgeri strain G0519 was isolated from a 
diseased slider turtle (Trachemys scripta) in China, and qPCR assay was
established for the RTX toxin (rtxD) gene. Histopathological examination showed
that many inflammatory cells were infiltrated into heart, liver and intestine, as
well as the necrosis of liver, kidney and spleen. The genome consisted of one
circular chromosome (4.493 Mb) and one plasmid (18.8 kb), and predicted to
contain 4170 and 19 protein-coding genes, respectively. Multiple pathogenic and
virulence factors (e.g., fimbria, adhesion, invasion, toxin, hemolysin,
chemotaxis, secretion system), multidrug-resistant genes (e.g., ampC, per-1,
oxa-1, sul1, tetR) and a novel genomic resistance island PRI519 were identified. 
Comparative genome analysis revealed the closest relationship was with P.
rettgeri, and with P. heimbachae closer than with other Providencia spp. To our
knowledge, this was first report on genomic characterization of
multidrug-resistant pathogenic P. rettgeri in cultured turtles.

DOI: 10.1007/s10482-020-01469-4 
PMID: 32951105 

