
1. Acta Biochim Pol. 2020 Jul 31;67(3):387-392. doi: 10.18388/abp.2020_5239.

Molecular characterization of a multidrug-resistant/pandrug-resistant nosocomial 
polymicrobial infection with Klebsiella pneumoniae, Providencia rettgeri, and
Acinetobacter baumannii from Rural Maharashtra, India.

Karad DD(1), Somani Y(2), Khande H(3), Yadav B(4), Kharat AS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Shri Shivaji Mahavidyalaya, Barshi, Solapur,
Maharashtra, 413411, India.
(2)Dr. Yogesh Somani Hospital, Barshi, Solapur, Maharashtra, 413401, India.
(3)Wockhardt Research Centre, Aurangabad, Maharashtra, 431210, India.
(4)Laboratory of Applied Microbiology, School of Life Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru 
University,Â New Mehrauli Road, New Delhi, 110067, India.

The emergence of resistance against commonly used antibiotics has become a
serious global concern. The rapid development of antibiotic resistance exhibited 
by Enterobacteriaceae has caused an increasing concern regarding untreatable
bacterial infections. Here, we isolated four pathogens from a geriatric female
patient who was hospitalized for a month with ventilator-associated pneumonia
(VAP) and fever. The organisms isolated from the tracheal aspirates and urine
included Klebsiella pneumoniae, pandrug-resistant Providencia rettgeri, and
Acinetobacter baumannii. Resistome analysis indicated that the bacterial isolates
from the polymicrobial infection were multiple-drug resitnat and pandrug
resistant clones. Molecular characterization revealed presence of blaTEM-1 in K. 
pneumonaie, P. rettgeri and A. baumannii. The blaTEM-1 and blaNDM-1 genes were
present in P. rettgeri and A. baumannii, whereas the blaTEM-1, blaNDM-1 and
blaOXA-23 traits were present in A. baumannii isolates. The patient has died due 
to the unavailability of effective antimicrobial treatment for this
drug-resistant polymicrobial infection.

DOI: 10.18388/abp.2020_5239 
PMID: 32735431 

