
1. Bioresour Technol. 2019 Dec 16;305:122626. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2019.122626.
[Epub ahead of print]

Nitrogen removal characteristics of a versatile heterotrophic nitrifying-aerobic 
denitrifying bacterium, Pseudomonas bauzanensis DN13-1, isolated from deep-sea
sediment.

Zhang M(1), Li A(1), Yao Q(2), Wu Q(1), Zhu H(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Applied Microbiology Southern China, Guangdong
Provincial Key Laboratory of Microbial Culture Collection and Application,
Guangdong Microbial Culture Collection Center (GDMCC), Guangdong Institute of
Microbiology, Guangdong Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510070, PR China.
(2)College of Horticulture, South China Agricultural University, Guangdong
Province Key Laboratory of Microbial Signals and Disease Control, Guangzhou
510642, PR China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Applied Microbiology Southern China, Guangdong
Provincial Key Laboratory of Microbial Culture Collection and Application,
Guangdong Microbial Culture Collection Center (GDMCC), Guangdong Institute of
Microbiology, Guangdong Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510070, PR China.
Electronic address: zhuhh@gdim.cn.

A heterotrophic nitrifying-aerobic denitrifying bacterium isolated from deep-sea 
sediment was identified as Pseudomonas bauzanensis DN13-1. Nitrogen (N) removal
capability and relative expression of nitrification and denitrification genes of 
this strain were investigated. The NO2--N, NO3--N and NH4+-N removal efficiencies
were 98.82%, 65.87% and 98.89%, respectively, and strain DN13-1 could efficiently
remove mixed N. Meanwhile, other inorganic N was not accumulated during these N
removal processes. Genomic analysis indicated that genes nirS, norB, nosZ, nasA
and putative amo were identified. The relative expression of functional genes by 
real-time PCR (qPCR) further confirmed nitrite, nitrate and ammonium removal
pathways of strain DN13-1 under aerobic condition. Especially, the ammonium
removal pathway of this strain was achieved through heterotrophic ammonium
nitrification coupled with fast nitrite denitrification directly. Taken together,
strain DN13-1 possesses particularity to efficiently remove N, which guarantees
its promising application in aquaculture wastewater treatment.

Copyright Â© 2019. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2019.122626 
PMID: 32143020 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

