
1. Front Microbiol. 2019 Nov 5;10:2515. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02515. eCollection
2019.

Chinese Black Truffle-Associated Bacterial Communities of Tuber indicum From
Different Geographical Regions With Nitrogen Fixing Bioactivity.

Chen J(1), Li JM(1), Tang YJ(1), Xing YM(1), Qiao P(2), Li Y(1), Liu PG(3), Guo
SX(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Bioactive Substances and Resources Utilization of Chinese
Herbal Medicine, Ministry of Education, Institute of Medicinal Plant Development,
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing,
China.
(2)Shandong Institute of Sericulture, Shandong Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Yantai, China.
(3)Key Laboratory for Plant Diversity and Biogeography of East Asia, Kunming
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, China.

It is well known that the microbes associated with truffle fruiting bodies play a
very important role during the truffle lifecycle. Tuber indicum, commonly called 
Chinese black truffle, is a species endemic to Eastern Asia and in the genus of
Tuber. Here, we reported the bacterial communities of T. indicum from different
geographical regions and described the bacterial diversity from three
compartments (soil, ectomycorrhizae and ascocarps) of T. indicum using
high-throughput sequencing combined tissue culture. The results revealed that
Bradyrhizobium was the dominant genus in fruiting bodies of T. indicum from nine 
geographical sites in China, and the microbes in T. indicum ascocarps were
influenced by geological locations and soil characteristics. More specific
bacterial taxa were enriched in the fruiting bodies than in the ectomycorrhizae
and soil. In addition, 60 cultural bacteria were isolated from T. indicum
fruiting bodies (4 families, 24 genera), and Pseudomonas, Alcaligenes faecalis,
Microbacterium, and Arthrobacter were dominant. One of 13 strains that have
potential nitrogen-fixation activities was further verified by an acetylene
reduction assay (ARA). Together, this research provides new and important data
for better understanding of the interaction between truffle and associated
microbe and the biology of truffle itself.

Copyright Â© 2019 Chen, Li, Tang, Xing, Qiao, Li, Liu and Guo.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02515 
PMCID: PMC6848067
PMID: 31749786 

