
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Aug 7;11:1874. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01874. eCollection
2020.

Soil Application of a Formulated Biocontrol Rhizobacterium, Pseudomonas
chlororaphis PCL1606, Induces Soil Suppressiveness by Impacting Specific
Microbial Communities.

Tienda S(1)(2), Vida C(1)(2), Lagendijk E(3), de Weert S(3), Linares I(1)(2),
González-Fernández J(4), Guirado E(4), de Vicente A(1)(2), Cazorla FM(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiología, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Málaga,
Málaga, Spain.
(2)Instituto de Hortofruticultura Subtropical y Mediterránea "La Mayora",
IHSM-UMA-CSIC, Málaga, Spain.
(3)Koppert Biological Systems, Berkel en Rodenrijs, Netherlands.
(4)Instituto de Hortofruticultura Subtropical y Mediterránea "La Mayora",
IHSM-UMA-CSIC, Estación Experimental "La Mayora", Algarrobo, Spain.

Biocontrol bacteria can be used for plant protection against some plant diseases.
Pseudomonas chlororaphis PCL1606 (PcPCL1606) is a model bacterium isolated from
the avocado rhizosphere with strong antifungal antagonism mediated by the
production of 2-hexyl, 5-propil resorcinol (HPR). Additionally, PcPCL1606 has
biological control against different soil-borne fungal pathogens, including the
causal agent of the white root rot of many woody crops and avocado in the
Mediterranean area, Rosellinia necatrix. The objective of this study was to
assess whether the semicommercial application of PcPCL1606 to soil can
potentially affect avocado soil and rhizosphere microbial communities and their
activities in natural conditions and under R. necatrix infection. To test the
putative effects of PcPCL1606 on soil eukaryotic and prokaryotic communities, a
formulated PcPCL1606 was prepared and applied to the soil of avocado plants
growing in mesocosm experiments, and the communities were analyzed by using
16S/ITS metagenomics. PcPCL1606 survived until the end of the experiments. The
effect of PcPCL1606 application on prokaryotic communities in soil and
rhizosphere samples from natural soil was not detectable, and very minor changes 
were observed in eukaryotic communities. In the infested soils, the presence of
R. necatrix strongly impacted the soil and rhizosphere microbial communities.
However, after PcPCL1606 was applied to soil infested with R. necatrix, the
prokaryotic community reacted by increasing the relative abundance of few
families with protective features against fungal soilborne pathogens and organic 
matter decomposition (Chitinophagaceae, Cytophagaceae), but no new prokaryotic
families were detected. The treatment of PcPCL1606 impacted the fungal profile,
which strongly reduced the presence of R. necatrix in avocado soil and
rhizosphere, minimizing its effect on the rest of the microbial communities. The 
bacterial treatment of formulated PcPCL1606 on avocado soils infested with R.
necatrix resulted in biological control of the pathogen. This suppressiveness
phenotype was analyzed, and PcPCL1606 has a key role in suppressiveness
induction; in addition, this phenotype was strongly dependent on the production
of HPR.

Copyright © 2020 Tienda, Vida, Lagendijk, de Weert, Linares, González-Fernández, 
Guirado, de Vicente and Cazorla.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01874 
PMCID: PMC7426498
PMID: 32849458 

