
1. Toxins (Basel). 2020 Sep 9;12(9). pii: E579. doi: 10.3390/toxins12090579.

The Influence of Calcium toward Order/Disorder Conformation of Repeat-in-Toxin
(RTX) Structure of Family I.3 Lipase from Pseudomonas fluorescens AMS8.

Ali NSM(1)(2), Salleh AB(1), Leow TC(1)(3), Rahman RNZRA(1)(4), Ali MSM(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Enzyme and Microbial Technology Research Center, Faculty of Biotechnology and 
Biomolecular Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang 43400, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biotechnology and Biomolecular
Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang 43400, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Biotechnology and
Biomolecular Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang 43400, Malaysia.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Biotechnology and Biomolecular
Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang 43400, Malaysia.

Calcium-binding plays a decisive role in the folding and stabilization of many
RTX proteins, especially for the RTX domain. Although many studies have been
conducted to prove the contribution of Ca2+ ion toward the folding and
stabilization of RTX proteins, its functional dynamics and conformational
structural changes remain elusive. Here, molecular docking and molecular dynamics
(MD) simulations were performed to analyze the contribution of Ca2+ ion toward
the folding and stabilization of the RTX lipase (AMS8 lipase) structure. AMS8
lipase contains six Ca2+ ions (Ca1-Ca6). Three Ca2+ ions (Ca3, Ca4, and Ca5) were
bound to the RTX parallel Î²-roll motif repeat structure (RTX domain). The metal
ion (Ca2+) docking analysis gives a high binding energy, especially for Ca4 and
Ca5 which are tightly bound to the RTX domain. The function of each Ca2+ ion is
further analyzed using the MD simulation. The removal of Ca3, Ca4, and Ca5 caused
the AMS8 lipase structure to become unstable and unfolded. The results suggested 
that Ca3, Ca4, and Ca5 stabilized the RTX domain. In conclusion, Ca3, Ca4, and
Ca5 play a crucial role in the folding and stabilization of the RTX domain, which
sustain the integrity of the overall AMS8 lipase structure.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins12090579 
PMID: 32916891 

