
1. PLoS One. 2020 Feb 28;15(2):e0226232. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0226232.
eCollection 2020.

Investigation of the quorum-sensing regulon of the biocontrol bacterium
Pseudomonas chlororaphis strain PA23.

Shah N(1), Gislason AS(1), Becker M(2), Belmonte MF(2), Fernando WGD(3), de
Kievit TR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba,
Canada.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba,
Canada.
(3)Department of Plant Science, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba,
Canada.

Pseudomonas chlororaphis strain PA23 is a biocontrol agent capable of protecting 
canola from stem rot disease caused by the fungal pathogen Sclerotinia
sclerotiorum. PA23 produces several inhibitory compounds that are under control
of a complex regulatory network. Included in this cascade is the PhzRI quorum
sensing (QS) system, which plays an essential role in PA23 biocontrol, as well as
CsaRI and AurRI, which have not yet been characterized in PA23. The focus of the 
current study was to employ RNA sequencing to explore the spectrum of PA23 genes 
under QS control. In this work, we investigated genes under the control of the
main QS transcriptional regulator, PhzR, as well as those differentially
expressed in an AHL-deficient strain, PA23-6863, which constitutively expresses
an AiiA lactonase, rendering the strain QS defective. Transcriptomic profiling
revealed 545 differentially expressed genes (365 downregulated; 180 upregulated) 
in the phzR mutant and 534 genes (382 downregulated; 152 upregulated) in the
AHL-deficient PA23-6863. In both strains, decreased expression of phenazine,
pyrrolnitrin, and exoprotease biosynthetic genes was observed. We have previously
reported that QS activates expression of these genes and their encoded products. 
In addition, elevated siderophore and decreased chitinase gene expression was
observed in the QS-deficient stains, which was confirmed by phenotypic analysis. 
Inspection of the promoter regions revealed the presence of "phz-box" sequences
in only 58 of the 807 differentially expressed genes, suggesting that much of the
QS regulon is indirectly regulated. Consistent with this notion, 41
transcriptional regulators displayed altered expression in one or both of the
QS-deficient strains. Collectively, our findings indicate that QS governs
expression of approximately 13% of the PA23 genome affecting diverse functions
ranging from secondary metabolite production to general metabolism.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0226232 
PMCID: PMC7048289
PMID: 32109244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

