
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Jun;77(6):910-917. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-01884-w. Epub
2020 Jan 21.

Adsorption of Tolaasins, the Toxins Behind Mushroom Bacterial Blotch, by
Microbacterium spp. is Insufficient for Its Detoxification.

Tomita S(1), Hirayasu A(1), Kajikawa A(1), Igimi S(1), Shinohara H(2), Yokota
K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Chemistry, Tokyo University of Agriculture, Tokyo, 
156-8502, Japan.
(2)Department of Agriculture, Tokyo University of Agriculture, Kanagawa,
243-0034, Japan.
(3)Department of Agricultural Chemistry, Tokyo University of Agriculture, Tokyo, 
156-8502, Japan. yokota@nodai.ac.jp.

Tolaasins are lipodepsipeptides secreted by Pseudomonas tolaasii, the causal
agent of bacterial blotch on several kinds of cultivated mushrooms. Our previous 
study reported on tolaasin detoxification by Microbacterium sp. K3-5 as a
potential biocontrol of the disease. In this study, the tolaasin-detoxifying
activities of various type strains of Microbacterium spp. were evaluated through 
chemical and biological assays. The bacterial cells of all tested strains of
Microbacterium spp. showed tolaasin I-elimination from liquid phase. However, the
toxin activities of tolaasins were still retained on the tolaasin-treated
bacterial cells of all Microbacterium strains except M. foliorum NBRC 103072T.
Furthermore, intact tolaasin I was recovered from the tolaasin-treated bacterial 
cells of all tested strains except M. foliorum NBRC 103072T. Our data reveal that
Microbacterium spp. can be characterized as effective tolaasin I-eliminating
bacteria through cell adsorption, but that this adsorption alone is insufficient 
for actual tolaasin detoxification. The biological degradation process must be
needed to carry out the detoxification.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-01884-w 
PMID: 31965226 

