
1. Microorganisms. 2019 Dec 5;7(12). pii: E655. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms7120655.

Quantitative and Compositional Study of Monospecies Biofilms of Spoilage
Microorganisms in the Meat Industry and Their Interaction in the Development of
Multispecies Biofilms.

Ripolles-Avila C(1), García-Hernández N(1), Cervantes-Huamán BH(1), Mazaheri
T(1), Rodríguez-Jerez JJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Area of Human Nutrition and Food Science, Department of Food and Animal
Science, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 08193 Barcelona, Spain.

Food spoilage is a serious problem in the food industry, since it leads to
significant economic losses. One of its main causes is the cross-contamination of
food products from industrial surfaces. Three spoilage bacterial species which
are highly present in meat and the gastrointestinal tract of chickens were
selected: Pseudomonas fragi, Leuconostoc gasicomitatum, and Lactobacillus
reuteri. The dual aim was to determine their ability to form monospecies biofilms
and to examine how they interact when they coexist together. To do so, mature
monospecies biofilms were produced statically for seven days at a temperature of 
30 °C. L. gasicomitatum was also used to investigate the behavior of P. fragi and
L. reuteri in the formation of multispecies biofilms. The structure and
composition of the monospecies biofilms were evaluated by direct epifluorescence 
microscopy, and the multispecies biofilms were evaluated by plate counting. Both 
L. gasicomitatum and L. reuteri were able to form biofilms, with counts of
approximately 7 Log CFU/cm2 and a defined structure. However, P. fragi obtained
counts to the order of 4 Log CFU/cm2, which is significantly different from the
previous species (P < 0.05), and it had no network of cell conglomerates. The
content of the L. gasicomitatum and L. reuteri biofilm matrices were 70-80%
protein, unlike P. fragi, which presented a higher polysaccharide content (P <
0.05). In the multispecies biofilms, the presence of P. fragi did not affect the 
growth of L. gasicomitatum, which remained at between 5.76 to 6.1 Log CFU/cm2.
However, L. reuteri was able to displace L. gasicomitatum growth after 24 h of
coexisting in a mixed biofilm, presenting differences in counts of approximately 
2 Log CFU/cm2. The study of the biofilms constructed by food industry resident
microbiota can help to understand the ecological relations that exist between
species, characterize them, and propose strategies to eliminate them. The name of
genes and species should be written in italic.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms7120655 
PMCID: PMC6956169
PMID: 31817368 

