
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Sep 30:104529. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104529. [Epub
ahead of print]

Antimicrobial activity and biofilm inhibition of riparins I, II and III and
ultrastructural changes in multidrug-resistant bacteria of medical importance.

Oliveira-Júnior JB(1), Morais da Silva E(2), Veras DL(2), Cardoso Ribeiro KR(2), 
Fernandes de Freitas C(2), Gomes de Lima FC(2), Chavez Gutierrez SJ(3), Camara
CA(4), Barbosa-Filho JM(5), Alves LC(6), Brayner FA(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Department of Parasitology,
Institute Aggeu Magalhães - FIOCRUZ/PE (Av. Prof. Moraes Rego, S/n - Cidade
Universitária, Recife/PE, 50670-420, Brazil. Electronic address:
junniorbiologia@hotmail.com.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Department of Parasitology,
Institute Aggeu Magalhães - FIOCRUZ/PE (Av. Prof. Moraes Rego, S/n - Cidade
Universitária, Recife/PE, 50670-420, Brazil.
(3)Pharmacy Course Coordination, Federal University of Piauí (Campus
Universitário Ministro Petrônio Portela, SG-8 - Bairro Ininga, Teresina, PI,
64049-550, Brazil.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Rural Federal University of Pernambuco (Rua Dom
Manuel de Medeiros, S/n - Dois Irmãos, Recife, PE, 52171-900, Brazil.
(5)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Technology, Federal University of Paraíba (Campus
I - Lot. Cidade Universitária, João Pessoa, PB, 58051-900, Brazil.
(6)Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Department of Parasitology,
Institute Aggeu Magalhães - FIOCRUZ/PE (Av. Prof. Moraes Rego, S/n - Cidade
Universitária, Recife/PE, 50670-420, Brazil; Electronic Microscopy, Laboratory of
Immunopathology Keizo Asami, Federal University of Pernambuco (Av. Prof. Moraes
Rego, 1235 - Cidade Universitária, Recife, PE, 50670-901, Brazil.

Natural products have been used to treat various infections; however, the
development of antimicrobials has made natural products in disuse. Riparin I, II 
and III are natural alkamide isolated from Aniba riparia (Ness) Mez (Lauraceae), 
that exhibit economic importance and it is used in traditional medicine, and
popularly known as "louro". This study investigated the cytotoxicity,
antimicrobial and antibiofilm activity, and ultrastructural changes in vitro by
riparins I, II and III in Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae,
Acinetobacter baumannii and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We analyzed the cytotoxicity 
by MTT assay in Vero cells and hemolytic action verified in human erythrocytes.
The antimicrobial activity was determined by microdilution in broth against ATCC 
strains, identifying the susceptible species. Subsequently, only the MDR isolates
of sensitive bacterial species were evaluated regarding its biofilm formation and
ultrastructural changes. Riparin I presented low cytotoxicity and hemolytic
percentage ranging from of 9.01%-12.97%. Only the riparin III that showed
antimicrobial activity against MDR clinical isolates, and significant reduction
in biofilm formation in S. aureus. Moreover, the riparin III promoted
ultrastructural changes in bacterial cells, such as elongated cellular without
bacterial septum, cells with a rugged appearance on the cell surface and
cytoplasmic material extravasation. As has been noted riparin III has an
inhibitory potential against biofilm formation in S. aureus, besides having
antimicrobial activity and promoting ultrastructural changes in MDR clinical
isolates. Thus, riparin III is an interesting alternative for further studies
aiming to develop new therapeutic options.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104529 
PMID: 33010367 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors
declare no any conflict of interest.

