
1. J Sci Food Agric. 2019 Nov;99(14):6601-6607. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.9946. Epub 2019
Aug 26.

Phosphate-solubilizing bacteria improve Agave angustifolia Haw. growth under
field conditions.

Bautista-Cruz A(1), Antonio-Revuelta B(2), Del Carmen Martínez Gallegos V(1),
Báez-Pérez A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Politécnico Nacional, CIIDIR-Oaxaca, Hornos 1003, Xoxocotlan,
Oaxaca, Mexico.
(2)Graduate Student, Master of Science in Natural Resource Conservation,
Instituto Politécnico Nacional, CIIDIR-Oaxaca, Hornos 1003, Xoxocotlan, Oaxaca,
Mexico.
(3)Campo Experimental Bajío-INIFAP. Carretera Celaya-San Miguel de Allende, km
6.5. Celaya, Guanajuato, México.

BACKGROUND: Phosphate-solubilizing bacteria (PSB) can be an environment-friendly 
strategy to improve crop production in low-phosphorus (P) or P-deficient soils.
The effect of indigenous mixed inocula of PSB on Agave angustifolia Haw. growth
was assessed. The four treatments evaluated were T1 (Pseudomonas
luteola + Enterobacter sp.), T2 (Pseudomonas luteola + Bacillus sp.), T3
(Pseudomonas luteola + Acinetobacter sp.), and T4 (control); each was replicated 
25 times using a completely randomized design during 12 months under rain-fed
conditions. Additionally, P solubilization in vitro of the mixed inocula with
three different sources of inorganic P was tested.
RESULTS: The mixed inocula were able to solubilize more P from tricalcium
phosphate Ca3 (PO4 )2 than from aluminum phosphate (AlPO4 ) and iron phosphate
(FePO4 ). Relative to the control, T2 increased plant height by 22.9%, leaf dry
weight by 391.4%, plant stem diameter by 49.6%, and root dry weight by 193.9%.
The stem solid soluble content increased 50.0% with T1. Plant-available soil P
increased 94.6% with T3 and 77.3% with T1. Soil alkaline phosphatase activity
increased 85.9% with T1.
CONCLUSION: T2 was the mixed inoculum that most improved Agave angustifolia plant
growth. The indigenous mixed inocula of PSB evaluated appears to be a practical
and efficient option for promoting field growth of Agave angustifolia plants.
However, further research is necessary to achieve a deeper understanding of the
relationships between different PSB species and their effects on agave, which may
reveal some of the mechanisms of the synergistic interactions that are involved
in the promotion of plant growth. © 2019 Society of Chemical Industry.

© 2019 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.9946 
PMID: 31347166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

