
1. Crit Rev Microbiol. 2020 Aug;46(4):397-419. doi: 10.1080/1040841X.2020.1794790.
Epub 2020 Sep 4.

Lipopeptide families at the interface between pathogenic and beneficial
Pseudomonas-plant interactions.

Girard L(1), HÃ¶fte M(2), Mot R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Microbial and Plant Genetics, Faculty of Bioscience Engineering, KU 
Leuven, Heverlee-Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Department of Plants and Crops, Laboratory of Phytopathology, Faculty of
Bioscience Engineering, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.

Lipopeptides (LPs) are a prominent class of molecules among the steadily growing 
spectrum of specialized metabolites retrieved from Pseudomonas, in particular
soil-dwelling and plant-associated isolates. Among the multiple LP families,
pioneering research focussed on phytotoxic and antimicrobial cyclic lipopeptides 
(CLPs) of the ubiquitous plant pathogen Pseudomonas syringae (syringomycin and
syringopeptin). Their non-ribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs) are embedded in
biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs) that are tightly co-clustered on a
pathogenicity island. Other members of the P. syringae group (Pseudomonas
cichorii) and some species of the Pseudomonas asplenii group and Pseudomonas
fluorescens complex have adopted these biosynthetic strategies to co-produce
their own mycin and peptin variants, in some strains supplemented with an
analogue of the P. syringae linear LP (LLP), syringafactin. This capacity is not 
confined to phytopathogens but also occurs in some biocontrol strains, which
indicates that these LP families not solely function as general virulence
factors. We address this issue by scrutinizing the structural diversity and
bioactivities of LPs from the mycin, peptin, and factin families in a
phylogenetic and evolutionary perspective. BGC functional organization (including
associated regulatory and transport genes) and NRPS modular architectures in
known and candidate LP producers were assessed by genome mining.

DOI: 10.1080/1040841X.2020.1794790 
PMID: 32885723 

