
1. Foods. 2020 Jun 16;9(6). pii: E789. doi: 10.3390/foods9060789.

Packaging Design Using Mustard Seeds as a Natural Antimicrobial: A Study on
Inhibition of Pseudomonas fragi in Liquid Medium.

Bahmid NA(1)(2), Heising J(1), Fogliano V(1), Dekker M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Food Quality and Design Group, Wageningen University and Research, P.O. Box
17, 6700 AA Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(2)Agriculture and Forestry Faculty, Universitas Sulawesi Barat, Majene 91412,
Indonesia.

Pseudomonas fragi is the dominant spoilage organism in various foods, especially 
in spoiled milk, fish, and meats. Its growth can be inhibited by releasing allyl 
isothiocyanate (AITC) from ground mustard seeds in food packages. This paper aims
to investigate the antimicrobial potential of ground mustard seeds against P.
fragi growth and the effectiveness of released AITC concentration from mustard
seeds on microbial inhibition of the spoilage bacteria growing in the liquid
medium. The AITC concentration in the headspace and the liquid medium was
measured and the growth of P. fragi in the liquid medium was monitored. Depending
on the concentration of AITC, not only growth was inhibited but a reduction of
the total count of P. fragi was even observed. The inactivation rate (k) of P.
fragi was estimated using first-order inactivation kinetics and the minimum
gaseous-released AITC to inactivate P. fragi was determined. Higher AITC
concentration in the headspace and liquid medium was observed when using a higher
amount of ground mustard seeds and a lower food to headspace ratio. Increasing
the amount of ground mustard seeds (>100 mg per 10 mL liquid medium) led to full 
inactivation of P. fragi in 48 hours. By using an inhibition sigmoid Emax model, 
the minimum gaseous-released AITC for inactivation of P. fragi in 48 hours was
observed around 15 Âµg/L headspace. These results indicate that inhibition of the 
spoilage bacteria and extending the shelf life using ground mustard seeds is only
possible by applying a careful design of the packaging system.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9060789 
PMCID: PMC7353601
PMID: 32560102 

