
1. J Hazard Mater. 2019 Nov 5;379:120841. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2019.120841. Epub
2019 Jun 27.

Metagenomic assembly provides a deep insight into the antibiotic resistome
alteration induced by drinking water chlorination and its correlations with
bacterial host changes.

Jia S(1), Wu J(1), Ye L(1), Zhao F(1), Li T(1), Zhang XX(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, Environmental
Health Research Center, School of the Environment, Nanjing University, Nanjing
210023, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, Environmental
Health Research Center, School of the Environment, Nanjing University, Nanjing
210023, China. Electronic address: zhangxx@nju.edu.cn.

Chlorination can contribute to the enrichment of specific antibiotic resistance
genes (ARGs) in drinking water, but the underlying molecular ecological
mechanisms remain unknown, which may hinder the assessment and control of the
resulting health risks. In this study, metagenomic assembly and Resfams
annotation were used to profile the co-occurrence patterns of ARGs, mobile
genetic elements (MGEs) and their bacterial hosts, as well as the correlations of
potential pathogens with the antibiotic resistome, in a full-scale drinking water
treatment and transportation system. Seven ARG types involved in different
resistance mechanisms occurred in drinking water and chlorination enhanced the
total abundance of the ARGs (p <  0.05). The ARGs encoding
resistance-nodulation-cell division and ATP-binding cassette antibiotic efflux
pumps predominated in all the samples and were primarily responsible for the ARG 
accumulation. After chlorination, the ARGs were primarily carried by predominant 
Sphingomonas, Polaromonas, Hyphomicrobium, Acidovorax, Pseudomonas and
Fluviicola. Further, enrichment of the bacterial hosts and MGEs greatly
contributed to alteration of the antibiotic resistome. Pseudomonas alcaligenes,
carrying multiple ARGs, was identified as a potential pathogen in the chlorinated
drinking water. These findings provide novel insights into the host-ARG
relationship and the mechanism underlying the resistome alteration during
drinking water chlorination.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2019.120841 
PMID: 31279312  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

