
1. Microbiol Res. 2020 Aug;237:126483. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126483. Epub 2020 
May 1.

Genome analysis of plant growth-promoting rhizobacterium Pseudomonas chlororaphis
subsp. aurantiaca JD37 and insights from comparasion of genomics with three
Pseudomonas strains.

Zhang L(1), Chen W(2), Jiang Q(3), Fei Z(2), Xiao M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Development Center of Plant Germplasm Resources, College of Life Sciences,
Shanghai Normal University, Shanghai, 200234, China.
(2)Boyce Thompson Institute, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, 14853, USA.
(3)Development Center of Plant Germplasm Resources, College of Life Sciences,
Shanghai Normal University, Shanghai, 200234, China; Department of Microbiology
and Microbial Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai,
200438, China.
(4)Development Center of Plant Germplasm Resources, College of Life Sciences,
Shanghai Normal University, Shanghai, 200234, China. Electronic address:
xiaom88@shnu.edu.cn.

Pseudomonas chlororaphis subsp. aurantiaca strain JD37 is a plant
growth-promoting rhizobacterium (PGPR), which has important biotechnological
features such as plant growth promotion, rhizosphere colonization and biocontrol 
activities. In present study, the genome sequence of JD37 was obtained and
comparative genomic analysis were performed to explore unique features of the
JD37 genome and its relationship with other Pseudomonas PGPR: P. chlororaphis
PA23, P. protegens Pf-5 and P. aeruginosa M18. JD37 possessed a single circular
chromosome of 6,702,062 bp in length with an average GC content of 62.75 %. No
plasmid was detected in JD37. A total of 5003 functional proteins of JD37 were
predicted according to the clusters of orthologous groups (COGs) database. The
JD37 genome consisted of various genes involved in plant growth promotion,
biocontrol activities and defense responses. Genes involved in the rhizosphere
colonization and motility were also found in the genome of JD37, suggesting the
common plant growth-promoting traits in PGPR. The identified resistance genes
(e.g. those related to metal resistance, antibiotics, and osmotic and
temperature-shock) and secondary metabolite biosynthesis revealed the pathways
for metabolites it produced. Data presented in present study further provided
valuable information on its molecular genetics and adaptive capacity in the
rhizosphere niche.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126483 
PMID: 32402945 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare no competing interests.

