
1. Acta Clin Belg. 2020 Mar 10:1-3. doi: 10.1080/17843286.2020.1740464. [Epub ahead 
of print]

A Pseudomonas monteilii unilateral inguinofemoral granulomatous lymphadenitis in 
a two-year-old girl. A case report.

Barka A(1), Jansens H(2), Elst E(3), Wojciechowski M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Antwerp University Hospital, University of Antwerp, 
Antwerp, Belgium.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Antwerp University Hospital, University of
Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, AZ Sint Jozef, Malle, Belgium.

Introduction: Pseudomonas monteilii is an environmental contaminant and is
considered as an emerging human pathogen. We report the case of a Pseudomonas
monteilii granulomatous lymphadenitis in a two-year-old girl.Clinical
Presentation and Intervention: A two-year-old, previously healthy, Caucasian girl
developed a unilateral inguinofemoral granulomatous lymphadenitis with
Pseudomonas monteilii. The protracted course, the violaceous discoloration of the
overlying skin, the mild tenderness without constitutional signs, the reactive
tuberculin skin test with a negative interferon gamma release assay (IGRA) and
the negative Bartonella henselae serology ranked non-tuberculous mycobacterial
lymphadenitis high in our differential diagnosis. The ultrasonography showed
signs of abcedation. We decided for surgical excision of the nodes. A P.monteilii
granulomatous lymphadenitis was revealed. Treatment with an oral course of 2
weeks ciprofloxacin was prescribed. The course after treatment was uneventful and
after one year of follow-up, the child is still doing well.Conclusions: Unusual
clinical presentation should raise suspicion of uncommon pathogens and uncommon
pathogens should raise suspicion of an underlying problem such as
immunodeficiency, which was not the case in our patient.

DOI: 10.1080/17843286.2020.1740464 
PMID: 32153254 

