
1. J Nanobiotechnology. 2020 Oct 2;18(1):140. doi: 10.1186/s12951-020-00699-y.

Micelles self-assembled by 3-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl latycodigenin enhance cell
membrane permeability, promote antibiotic pulmonary targeting and improve
anti-infective efficacy.

Zhang M(1), Ye L(1), Huang H(2), Cheng D(3), Liu K(1), Wu W(1), Shen F(1), Jiang 
Z(2), Hou Y(4), Bai G(5).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Medicinal Chemical Biology, College of Pharmacy and
Tianjin Key Laboratory of Molecular Drug Research, Nankai University, Haihe
Education Park, 38 Tongyan Road, Tianjin, 300353, People's Republic of China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Macau University
of Science and Technology, Taipa, Macau, China.
(3)Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, 300193, People's 
Republic of China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Medicinal Chemical Biology, College of Pharmacy and
Tianjin Key Laboratory of Molecular Drug Research, Nankai University, Haihe
Education Park, 38 Tongyan Road, Tianjin, 300353, People's Republic of China.
houyy@nankai.edu.cn.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Medicinal Chemical Biology, College of Pharmacy and
Tianjin Key Laboratory of Molecular Drug Research, Nankai University, Haihe
Education Park, 38 Tongyan Road, Tianjin, 300353, People's Republic of China.
gangbai@nankai.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Nanoparticle-based pulmonary drug delivery systems are commonly
developed and applied for drug-targeted delivery. They exhibit significant
advantages compared to traditional pulmonary drug delivery systems. However,
developing the formulation of each drug is a time-consuming and laborious task.
RESULTS: In this study, a universal lung-targeting nanoparticle was designed and 
constructed. The self-assembled micelles were composed of a platycodon secondary 
saponin, 3-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl platycodigenin 682 (GP-682), based on its
specific amphiphilic structure. The GP-682 micelles exhibited a relatively stable
zeta potential with a particle size between 60 and 90 nm, and the critical
micelle concentration (CMC) value was approximately 42.3 μg/mL. Preincubation of 
GP-682 micelles markedly enhanced their cell membrane permeability and improved
drug uptake in vitro. The results were visualized using fluorescent dye tracing, 
transmission electron microscopy (TEM) observations and the lactate dehydrogenase
(LDH) release assay. The obtained benefits enhanced the distribution of
levofloxacin (Lev) in mouse lung tissue and reduced antibiotics overdosing. The
acute lung injury mouse model induced by the Pseudomonas aeruginosa PA 14 strain 
demonstrated that preinjection of GP-682 micelles before antibiotic
administration resulted in a higher survival rate and anti-infective efficacy in 
vivo. It also caused reductions in pulmonary injury, bacterial invasion and
cytokine expression compared with treatment with Lev alone.
CONCLUSIONS: GP-682 micelles are another nanoparticle-based pulmonary drug
delivery system and provide a new lung-targeting therapy option.

DOI: 10.1186/s12951-020-00699-y 
PMID: 33008413 

