
1. 3 Biotech. 2020 Jun;10(6):277. doi: 10.1007/s13205-020-02275-5. Epub 2020 May 30.

Rhizosphere engineering through exogenous growth-regulating small molecules
improves the colonizing efficiency of a plant growth-promoting rhizobacterium in 
rice.

Bowya T(1), Balachandar D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Microbiology, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University,
Coimbatore, 641003 India.

Enhancing the rhizosphere colonization and persistence of plant growth-promoting 
rhizobacteria (PGPR) is necessary for maximizing PGPR-mediated benefits for crop 
growth and fitness in environmentally friendly agriculture. In the present
investigation, we attempted manipulation of the rice rhizosphere by spraying of
low molecular weight plant-regulating metabolites on the foliage of rice plants
to in turn enhance the colonizing efficiency of soil-inoculated PGPR strain. The 
green fluorescent protein gene-tagged rhizobacterial strain, Pseudomonas
chlororaphis ZSB15-M2, was inoculated in sterile plant growth medium (vermiculite
coco peat mixture) and non-autoclaved agricultural soil. We sprayed different
plant growth-regulating small molecules on the foliage of rice seedlings and
monitored the colonizing efficiency of ZSB15-M2 in the rice rhizosphere. Among
the chemicals assessed, salicylic acid (SA) at 1 mM or Corynebacterium glutamicum
cell extract (CGCE, 0.2% w/v) or Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell extract (SCCE,
0.2% w/v) showed a tenfold increase in rhizosphere colony-forming units of
ZSB15-M2 compared to control with a significant decline in non-rhizosphere bulk
soil population. Foliar spray of CGCE enhanced soil organic carbon, microbial
biomass carbon and soil protein by 21.86%, 9.68% and 11.57% respectively in the
rice rhizosphere as compared to mock control. Additionally, CGCE spray enhanced
the key soil enzymes, viz., dehydrogenase and acid- and alkaline phosphatase in
the rhizosphere ranging 15-36%. The cumulative effect of this engineered
rhizosphere resulted in the elevation of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and zinc
availability by 21.83%, 28.83%, 23.95% and 61.94%, respectively, in rice
rhizosphere as compared to control. On the other hand, SCCE and SA spray had an
equal influence on the rhizosphere's biological attributes, which is lower than
that of GCGE and higher than that of mock control. From the study, we propose
that the aboveground management of rice with microbial-based small molecules will
modulate the rice rhizosphere to attract more beneficial PGPR-based inoculants,
thus improving the crop and soil health.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-020-02275-5 
PMCID: PMC7261316 [Available on 2021-06-01]
PMID: 32537377 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThere is no conflicts of
interest.

