
1. Mol Microbiol. 2020 Oct 4. doi: 10.1111/mmi.14617. [Epub ahead of print]

Cell-type specific hypertranslocation of effectors by the Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
type III secretion system.

Armentrout EI(1), Kundracik EC(1), Rietsch A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Molecular Biology and Microbiology, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, OH, U.S.A.

Many Gram-negative pathogens use a type III secretion system (T3SS) to promote
disease by injecting effector proteins into host cells. Common to many T3SSs is
that injection of effector proteins is feedback inhibited. The mechanism of
feedback inhibition and its role in pathogenesis are unclear. In the case of P.
aeruginosa, the effector protein ExoS is central to limiting effector injection. 
ExoS is bifunctional, with an amino-terminal RhoGAP- and a carboxy-terminal
ADP-ribosyltransferase domain. We demonstrate that both domains are required to
fully feedback inhibit effector injection. The RhoGAP-, but not the
ADP-ribosyltransferase domain of the related effector protein ExoT also
participates. Feedback inhibition does not involve translocator insertion nor
pore-formation. Instead, feedback inhibition is due, in part, to a loss of the
activating trigger for effector injection, and likely also decreased translocon
stability. Surprisingly, feedback inhibition is abrogated in phagocytic cells.
The lack of feedback inhibition in these cells requires phagocytic uptake of the 
bacteria, but cannot be explained through acidification of the phagosome or
calcium limitation. Given that phagocytes are crucial for controlling P.
aeruginosa infections, our data suggest that feedback inhibition allows P.
aeruginosa to direct its effector arsenal against the cell types most damaging to
its survival.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/mmi.14617 
PMID: 33012037 

