
1. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2020 Oct 2. doi: 10.1002/ppul.25103. [Epub ahead of print]

Diagnostic Value of Sputum Cultures in Children under 2 Years of Age with Chronic
Suppurative Lung Diseases.

Stafler P(1)(2), Zaks-Hoffer G(3)(4), Scheuerman O(3)(2), Ben Zvi H(5)(2),
Mussaffi H(1)(2), Mei-Zahav M(1)(2), Steuer G(1), Levine H(1)(2), Bar-On O(1)(2),
Mantin H(1), Prais D(1)(2), Blau H(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graub CF Center Pulmonary Institute, Schneider Children's Medical Center of
Israel, Petach Tikva, Israel.
(2)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Ramat Aviv, Tel Aviv,
Israel.
(3)Pediatrics B, Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, Petach Tikva,
Israel.
(4)Genetics Institute, Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, Petach
Tikva, Israel.
(5)Microbiology Laboratory, Rabin Medical Center, Petach Tikva, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Acquiring sputum cultures from infants is considered challenging. We 
describe their yield in infants with CF and other chronic suppurative lung
diseases (CSLD).
METHODS: Retrospective medical record review over a 4 year period, for infants
aged 0-2 years with ≥ 2 airway bacterial cultures acquired by deep suction or
induced sputum ≥ 4 weeks apart. Data included demographics, culture results and
clinical status.
RESULTS: 98 infants (16 CF) were evaluated and 534 sputum cultures acquired, 201 
in CF and 333 in CSLD. There were 12 (2-23), median (range) cultures/ CF infant, 
and 3 (2-21)/ CSLD infant. Age at first culture was 3.8 (1-19.5) months for CF
and 10.4 (0.5-22) months for CSLD, p=0.016. 360 cultures (67%) were positive for 
any bacteria, with 170/234 (73%) positive during exacerbations, compared to
190/300 (63%) during routine visits, p=0.05. More infants with CF than CSLD had
cultures positive for Staphylococcus aureus (SA) (75% vs 34%, p=0.004) throughout
the period. Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA) was common in both CF and CSLD (56% and
44% respectively, p=0.42) and increased over time for CF but was high throughout 
for CSLD. Number of hospital days prior to PA acquisition was 6 (10.2) for CF and
28.8 (38.7) for CSLD (p=0.003). No CF but 6/82 (7%) CSLD infants had chronic PA
(p=0.56).
CONCLUSIONS: Sputum cultures showed that infection, in particular PA, is common
in CF and CSLD whereas SA is more common in CF. Prospective studies are warranted
to elucidate the role of active surveillance in guiding antibiotic therapy. This 
article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.25103 
PMID: 33006230 

