
1. Plant Dis. 2020 Jun;104(6):1801-1810. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-10-19-2276-RE. Epub 2020 
Apr 14.

Beneficial Bacteria Identified for the Control of Botrytis cinerea in Petunia
Greenhouse Production.

South KA(1), Peduto Hand F(2), Jones ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Horticulture and Crop Science, The Ohio State University,
Wooster, OH 44691.
(2)Department of Plant Pathology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210.

Botrytis cinerea infects most major greenhouse crops worldwide. With its
increasing resistance to conventional fungicides and the movement of the
greenhouse industry toward more sustainable production practices, alternative
methods of control are needed. The objective of this study was to evaluate a
collection of 60 bacterial strains through both a dual-culture assay and
greenhouse trials to identify strains with biocontrol activity against B.
cinerea. For the dual-culture assay, each bacterial strain was streaked on potato
dextrose agar medium with B. cinerea. The B. cinerea growth reduction and the
zone of inhibition were measured. Thirty-five strains reduced the growth of B.
cinerea. All strains were also tested in an initial greenhouse trial in which
Petunia × hybrida 'Carpet Red Bright' was sprayed and drenched with the bacteria 
biweekly for 6 weeks. All open flowers were tagged, and plants were inoculated
with B. cinerea (1 × 104 conidia per 1 ml). Disease severity indices calculated
from the daily flower gray mold severity ratings of all tagged flowers were used 
to identify the seven top-performing strains. These seven strains were then
evaluated in a greenhouse validation trial. The methods were similar to those of 
the initial greenhouse trials except that replicate numbers were increased. Three
strains (Pseudomonas protegens AP54, Pseudomonas chlororaphis 14B11, and
Pseudomonas fluorescens 89F1) were selected for the ability to reduce B. cinerea 
infection in a greenhouse production setting. These strains can be used in future
studies to develop additional biocontrol products for the management of B.
cinerea in floriculture crops.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-10-19-2276-RE 
PMID: 32289248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

