
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Sep 30;9(10). pii: E659. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9100659.

MeJA Elicitation of Chicory Hairy Roots Promotes Efficient Increase of 3,5-diCQA 
Accumulation, a Potent Antioxidant and Antibacterial Molecule.

Bernard G(1), Alves Dos Santos H(1), Etienne A(1), Samaillie J(1), Neut C(2),
Sahpaz S(1), Hilbert JL(1), Gagneul D(1), Jullian N(1), Tahrioui A(3), Chevalier 
S(3), Rivière C(1), Rambaud C(1).

Author information: 
(1)BioEcoAgro, Joint Research Unit 1158, Univ. Lille, INRAE, Univ. Liège, UPJV,
YNCREA, Univ. Artois, Univ. Littoral Côte d'Opale, ICV-Institut Charles
Viollette, F-59650 Villeneuve d'Ascq, France.
(2)U1286 Infinite, University of Lille, INSERM, CHU Lille, 59000 Lille, France.
(3)EA4312 Laboratoire de Microbiologie Signaux et Microenvironnement, Univ. de
Rouen Normandie, 27000 Évreux, France.

Cichorium intybus L. (Asteraceae) is an important industrial crop, as well as a
medicinal plant which produces some bioactive compounds implicated in various
biological effects with potential applications in human health. Particularly,
roots produce hydroxycinnamic acids like 5-caffeoyquinic acid and
3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid (di-CQA). The present investigation relates to the use 
of methyl jasmonate for enhancing phenolic compounds accumulation and production 
in hairy root cultures of C. intybus. Elicitated hairy root growth rate increased
13.3 times compared with the initial inoculum in a period of 14 days and di-CQA
production represented about 12% of DW. The elicitation has also promoted the
production of tricaffeoylquinic acid never described in the chicory roots and
identified as 3,4,5-tricaffeoyquinic acid by means of nuclear magnetic resonance.
Our study confirmed the strong anti-oxidant effect of di-CQA. Our results also
confirmed globally a selectivity of action of di-CQA against Gram-positive
bacteria, in particular against some strains of Staphylococcus and Streptococcus.
However, a non-negligible antibacterial activity of di-CQA against Pseudomonas
aeruginosa was also underlined (MIC = 0.156 mg.mL-1 against some P. aeruginosa
strains). The influence of di-CQA has been explored to evaluate its impact on the
physiology of P. aeruginosa. Di-CQA showed no effect on the biofilm formation and
the production of extracellular pyocyanin. However, it demonstrated an effect on 
virulence through the production of pyoverdine with a dose-dependent manner by
more than 7-fold when treated at a concentration of 128 µg·mL-1, thus suggesting 
a link between di-CQA and iron sequestration. This study shows that elicitated
hairy root cultures of chicory can be developed for the production of di-CQA, a
secondary metabolite with high antibacterial potential.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9100659 
PMID: 33007983 

