
1. Microb Cell Fact. 2020 May 19;19(1):105. doi: 10.1186/s12934-020-01364-7.

Identification of new arylamine N-acetyltransferases and enhancing
2-acetamidophenol production in Pseudomonas chlororaphis HT66.

Guo S(1), Wang Y(1), Wang W(1), Hu H(1)(2), Zhang X(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, School of Life Sciences and
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China.
(2)National Experimental, Teaching Center for Life Sciences and Biotechnology,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, School of Life Sciences and
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China.
xuehzhang@sjtu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: 2-Acetamidophenol (AAP) is an aromatic compound with the potential
for antifungal, anti-inflammatory, antitumor, anti-platelet, and anti-arthritic
activities. Due to the biosynthesis of AAP is not yet fully understood, AAP is
mainly produced by chemical synthesis. Currently, metabolic engineering of
natural microbial pathway to produce valuable aromatic compound has remarkable
advantages and exhibits attractive potential. Thus, it is of paramount importance
to develop a dominant strain to produce AAP by elucidating the AAP biosynthesis
pathway.
RESULT: In this study, the active aromatic compound AAP was first purified and
identified in gene phzB disruption strain HT66ΔphzB, which was derived from
Pseudomonas chlororaphis HT66. The titer of AAP in the strain HT66ΔphzB was
236.89 mg/L. Then, the genes involved in AAP biosynthesis were determined.
Through the deletion of genes phzF, Nat and trpE, AAP was confirmed to have the
same biosynthesis route as phenazine-1-carboxylic (PCA). Moreover, a new
arylamine N-acetyltransferases (NATs) was identified and proved to be the key
enzyme required for generating AAP by in vitro assay. P. chlororaphis P3, a
chemical mutagenesis mutant strain of HT66, has been demonstrated to have a
robust ability to produce antimicrobial phenazines. Therefore, genetic
engineering, precursor addition, and culture optimization strategies were used to
enhance AAP production in P. chlororaphis P3. The inactivation of phzB in P3
increased AAP production by 92.4%. Disrupting the phenazine negative regulatory
genes lon and rsmE and blocking the competitive pathway gene pykA in P3 increased
AAP production 2.08-fold, which also confirmed that AAP has the same biosynthesis
route as PCA. Furthermore, adding 2-amidophenol to the KB medium increased AAP
production by 64.6%, which suggested that 2-amidophenol is the precursor of AAP. 
Finally, by adding 5 mM 2-amidophenol and 2 mM Fe3+ to the KB medium, the
production of AAP reached 1209.58 mg/L in the engineered strain
P3ΔphzBΔlonΔpykAΔrsmE using a shaking-flask culture. This is the highest
microbial-based AAP production achieved to date.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, this study clarified the biosynthesis process of AAP
in Pseudomonas and provided a promising host for industrial-scale biosynthesis of
AAP from renewable resources.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-020-01364-7 
PMCID: PMC7236291
PMID: 32430011 

