
1. Foods. 2020 Jul 1;9(7). pii: E860. doi: 10.3390/foods9070860.

Assessment of the Antimicrobial, Antioxidant, and Antiproliferative Potential of 
Sideritis raeseri subps. raeseri Essential Oil.

Mitropoulou G(1), Sidira M(2), Skitsa M(3), Tsochantaridis I(3), Pappa A(3),
Dimtsoudis C(2), Proestos C(4), Kourkoutas Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology, Department of Molecular 
Biology & Genetics, Democritus University of Thrace, GR-68100 Alexandroupolis,
Greece.
(2)Research and Development Department, Macedonian-Thrace Brewery S.A., GR-69100 
Komotini, Greece.
(3)Cellular and Molecular Physiology Research Group, Department of Molecular
Biology & Genetics, Democritus University of Thrace, GR-68100 Alexandroupolis,
Greece.
(4)Laboratory of Food Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, National and
Kapodistrian University of Athens, GR-15771 Athens, Greece.

The aim of the present study was to investigate the antimicrobial potential of
Sideritis raeseri subps. raeseri essential oil (EO) against common food spoilage 
and pathogenic microorganisms and evaluate its antioxidant and antiproliferative 
activity. The EO was isolated by steam distillation and analyzed by GC/MS. The
main constituents identified were geranyl-p-cymene (25.08%), geranyl-Î³-terpinene 
(15.17%), and geranyl-linalool (14.04%). Initially, its activity against
Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Escherichia coli, Listeria
monocytogenes, Salmonella Enteritidis, Salmonella Typhimurium, Pseudomonas fragi,
Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and Aspergillus niger was screened by the disk
diffusion method. Subsequently, minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC),
non-inhibitory concentration (NIC), and minimum lethal concentration (MLC) values
were determined. Growth inhibition of all microorganisms tested was documented,
although it was significantly lower compared to gentamycin, ciproxin, and
voriconazole, which were used as positive controls. In a next step, its direct
antioxidant properties were examined using 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH)
and 2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) assays, and the
IC50 values were determined. The potential cytoprotective activity of the oil
against H2O2-induced oxidative stress and DNA damage was studied in human
immortalized keratinocyte (HaCaT) cells using the comet assay. Finally, the
antiproliferative activity of the oil was evaluated against a panel of cancer
cell lines including A375, Caco2, PC3, and DU145 and the non-cancerous HaCaT cell
line using the sulforhodamine B (SRB) assay, and the EC50 values were determined.
The oil demonstrated weak radical scavenging activity, noteworthy cytoprotective 
activity against H2O2-induced oxidative stress and DNA damage in HaCaT cells, and
antiproliferative activity against all cell lines tested, being more sensitive
against the in vitro model of skin melanoma.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9070860 
PMCID: PMC7404406
PMID: 32630203 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study, in the collection, analyses, or
interpretation of data, in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to
publish the results.

