
1. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2020 Jan;43(1):55-66. doi: 10.1007/s00449-019-02204-8.
Epub 2019 Oct 30.

Exploring encapsulation strategies as a protective mechanism to avoid amensalism 
in mixed populations of Pseudomonas taetrolens and Lactobacillus casei.

García C(1), Ranieri G(1), Rendueles M(1), Díaz M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, University of Oviedo,
Faculty of Chemistry, C/Julián Clavería S/N, 33071, Oviedo, Spain.
(2)Department of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, University of Oviedo,
Faculty of Chemistry, C/Julián Clavería S/N, 33071, Oviedo, Spain.
mariodiaz@uniovi.es.

Pseudomonas taetrolens constitutes an efficient platform for the biosynthesis of 
lactobionic acid, a potentially prebiotic compound. Unfortunately, an
amensalistic interaction has been demonstrated between P. taetrolens and
probiotic lactic acid bacteria (LAB), characterized by the competitive exclusion 
of P. taetrolens, hindering the in situ production of fermented dairy products
with synbiotic properties. In the present research, encapsulation was explored as
a barrier to the diffusion of the antimicrobial metabolites generated by LAB.
Mixed fermentations involving P. taetrolens LMG 2336 and Lactobacillus casei CECT
475 were cultivated, entrapping both microorganisms alternately. Alginate,
alginate/starch and carboxymethyl cellulose/k-carrageenan were tested as
encapsulating agents. The immobilization of L. casei in 2% alginate/2% starch
beads was found to be the best strategy, improving the production of lactobionic 
acid by 182% with respect to co-cultures with free cells. This study proves the
potential of LAB encapsulation for the protection of sensitive strains in mixed
food fermentations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00449-019-02204-8 
PMID: 31667575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

