
1. Pathogens. 2019 Nov 9;8(4). pii: E227. doi: 10.3390/pathogens8040227.

Resistance Sources to Brown Blotch Disease (Pseudomonas tolaasii) in a Diverse
Collection of Pleurotus Mushroom Strains.

Azu Okorley B(1)(2), Leo Sossah F(1)(2), Dai D(1)(2), Xu S(1)(2), Liu Z(1), Song 
B(1)(2), Sheng H(3), Fu Y(1)(2), Li Y(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)International Cooperation Research Center of China for New Germplasm and
Breeding of Edible Mushrooms, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun 130118,
China.
(2)Department of Plant Pathology, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun
130118, China.
(3)Department of Plant Pathology, Washington State University, Pullman, WA
99164-6430, USA.

Brown blotch disease (BBD) caused by Pseudomonas tolaasii is one of the most
devastating diseases of Pleurotus spp. worldwide. Breeding for resistant strains 
is the most effective method for controlling BBD. To identify resistant germplasm
for BBD management, 97 strains comprising 21 P. cf. floridanus, 20 P. ostreatus, 
and 56 P. pulmonarius were screened by two different methods; namely, inoculation
of the pathogen on the mushroom pileus (IMP) and on the spawned substrate (IMSS) 
under controlled conditions. Out of the 97 strains screened, 22 P. pulmonarius,
and four P. cf. floridanus were moderately resistant to BBD using the IMP method.
Eleven P. pulmonarius, six P. cf. florida, and one P. ostreatus strains were
highly resistant to BBD using the IMSS method. All of the 97 strains showed
varying degrees of susceptibility using the IMP method, but eight strains were
completely resistant using the IMSS method. Combining these two methods, five
strains were highly resistant (four P. pulmonarius and one P. cf. floridanus) and
11 were moderately resistant (eight P. pulmonarius and three P. cf. floridanus). 
The resistance sources to P. tolaasii identified in P. pulmonarius and P. cf.
floridanus could be used for further breeding of Pleurotus spp.

DOI: 10.3390/pathogens8040227 
PMCID: PMC6963638
PMID: 31717568 

