
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jul 8;11:1560. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01560. eCollection
2020.

Aer Receptors Influence the Pseudomonas chlororaphis PCL1606 Lifestyle.

Arrebola E(1)(2), Cazorla FM(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiología, Faculta de Ciencias, Universidad de Málaga,
Málaga, Spain.
(2)Instituto de Hortofruticultura Subtropical y Mediterránea "La Mayora" IHSM,
UMA-CSIC, Málaga, Spain.

Pseudomonas chlororaphis PCL1606 (PcPCL1606) is a rhizobacterium isolated from
avocado roots, which is a favorable niche for its development. This strain
extensively interacts with plant roots and surrounding microbes and is considered
a biocontrol rhizobacterium. Genome sequencing has shown the presence of
thirty-one potential methyl-accepting chemotaxis proteins (MCPs). Among these
MCPs, two candidates are putative functional aerotaxis receptors, encoded at
locus PCL1606_41090 (aer1-1) and locus PLC1606_20530 (aer1-2), that are
homologous to the Aer receptor of Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain PaO1. Single- and
double-deletion mutants in one or both genes have led to motility deficiencies in
oxygen-rich areas, particularly reduced swimming motility compared with that of
wildtype PcPCL1606. No differences in swarming tests were detected, and less
adhesion by the aer double mutant was observed. However, the single and double
mutants on avocado plant roots showed delayed biocontrol ability. During the
first days of the biocontrol experiment, the aer-defective mutants also showed
delayed root colonization. The current research characterizes the presence of aer
transductors on P. chlororaphis. Thus, the functions of the PCL1606_41090 and
PCL1606_20530 loci, corresponding to genes aer1-1 and aer1-2, respectively, are
elucidated.

Copyright © 2020 Arrebola and Cazorla.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01560 
PMCID: PMC7367214
PMID: 32754135 

