
1. Bioresour Technol. 2020 Oct;314:123736. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123736. Epub
2020 Jun 26.

Acceleration of biofilm formation in start-up of sequencing batch biofilm reactor
using carriers immobilized with Pseudomonas stutzeri strain XL-2.

Zhang P(1), Ding XS(1), Zhao B(2), An Q(1), Guo JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of the Three Gorges Reservoir Region's Eco-Environment,
Ministry of Education, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400045, PR China.
(2)Key Laboratory of the Three Gorges Reservoir Region's Eco-Environment,
Ministry of Education, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400045, PR China.
Electronic address: binzhao11@cqu.edu.cn.

P. stutzeri strain XL-2 initially immobilized on polypropylene carriers
accelerated the biofilm formation in start-up of sequencing batch biofilm reactor
(SBBR) (denoted R1). The biofilm formation in R1 was approximately completed in
36 days, which was shorter than that of 48 days in an identical SBBR (denoted R2)
without strain XL-2. Meanwhile, R1 presented a rapid stabilization of NH4+-N and 
TN removal to 81.7% and 72.4% respectively. Surface plasmon resonance
demonstrated that strain XL-2 enhanced the initial adhesion of carrier surface
due to the production of extracellular polymeric substances (EPS), which made it 
easier for other EPS-producing strains, such as Thauera and Flavobacterium, to
adhere to the carriers. PICRUSt revealed that biofilm in R1 presented relatively 
higher activity of EPS biosynthesis enzymes (glycosyltransferase and asparagine
synthase). Thus, high EPS content was obtained due to the application of carriers
immobilized with strain XL-2 and finally promoted the biofilm formation.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123736 
PMID: 32619807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

