
1. Microbiologyopen. 2020 Sep 26:e1110. doi: 10.1002/mbo3.1110. [Epub ahead of
print]

Evaluation of two xenobiotic reductases from Pseudomonas putida for their
suitability for magnetic nanoparticle-directed enzyme prodrug therapy as a novel 
approach to cancer treatment.

Ball P(1), Halliwell J(1), Anderson S(1), Gwenin V(1), Gwenin C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Bangor University, Bangor, UK.
(2)Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University, Suzhou, China.

Directed enzyme prodrug therapy (DEPT) is a cancer chemotherapy strategy in which
bacterial enzymes are delivered to a cancer site before prodrug administration,
resulting in prodrug activation at the cancer site and more localized treatment. 
A major limitation to DEPT is the poor effectiveness of the most studied enzyme
for the CB1954 prodrug, NfnB from Escherichia coli, at concentrations suitable
for human use. Much research into finding alternative enzymes to NfnB has
resulted in the identification of the Xenobiotic reductases, XenA and XenB, which
have been shown in the literature to reduce environmentally polluting
nitro-compounds. In this study, they were assessed for their potential use in
cancer prodrug therapy strategies. Both proteins were cloned into the pET28a+
expression vector to give the genetically modified proteins XenA-his and
XenB-his, of which only XenB-his was active when tested with CB1954. XenB-his was
further modified to include a cysteine-tag to facilitate direct immobilization on
to a gold surface for future magnetic nanoparticle DEPT (MNDEPT) treatments and
was named XenB-cys. When tested using high-performance liquid chromatography
(HPLC), XenB-his and XenB-cys both demonstrated a preference for reducing CB1954 
at the 4-nitro position. Furthermore, XenB-his and XenB-cys successfully induced 
cell death in SK-OV-3 cells when combined with CB1954. This led to XenB-cys being
identified as a promising candidate for use in future MNDEPT treatments.

Â© 2020 The Authors. MicrobiologyOpen published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mbo3.1110 
PMID: 32979040 

