
1. J Dairy Res. 2019 Nov;86(4):432-435. doi: 10.1017/S0022029919000700. Epub 2019
Nov 26.

Effect of a pre-milking teat foam and a liner disinfectant on the presence of
mesophilic and (proteolytic) psychrotrophic bacteria prior to milking.

Verhegghe M(1), De Block J(1), Van Weyenberg S(1), Herman L(1), Heyndrickx
M(1)(2), Van Coillie E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Flanders Research Institute for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (ILVO),
Technology and Food Science Unit, Brusselsesteenweg 370, 9090Melle, Belgium.
(2)Ghent University, Department of Pathology, Bacteriology and Avian Diseases,
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Salisburylaan 133, 9820Merelbeke, Belgium.

Contamination of raw milk by psychrotrophs can lead to the production of
heat-resistant proteases and subsequent spoilage of UHT milk. Therefore, this
research communication evaluated the effect of a pre-milking teat disinfectant
(active components: L-(+)-lactic acid and salicylic acid) and a liner
disinfectant (active components: peracetic acid and hydrogen peroxide) on the
number of mesophilic and (proteolytic) psychrotrophic bacteria prior to milking. 
The teat orifices of 10 cows were sampled using a swabbing procedure before and
after treatment with a pre-milking teat disinfectant on six subsequent days. On
the teat orifices, there was a small but statistically significant decrease in
the psychrotrophic bacterial counts between pre and post dipping. No differences 
were observed for the mesophilic bacterial counts and proteolytic active counts. 
Liners were also sampled using swabs pre and post disinfection. No statistically 
significant decrease in the bacterial counts was observed post liner
disinfection, although there was a numerical decrease. Sixty-two percent of the
proteolytic psychrotrophs were pseudomonads: 16.5% of which were P. fragi, 14.3% 
P. lundensis, 10.0% P. fluorescens and 2.9% P. putida. Trinitrobenzenesulfonic
acid (TNBS) analysis revealed a wide variety in proteolytic activity (from 0 to
55 Âµmol glycine/ml milk) and the presence of high producers. It can be concluded 
that there was only a minor effect of teat and liner disinfection on the
psychrotrophic bacterial counts indicating that the measures presented did not
result in a reduction of the targeted bacteria on teat orifices and liners.

DOI: 10.1017/S0022029919000700 
PMID: 31769367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

