
1. Mol Plant Microbe Interact. 2020 Feb;33(2):336-348. doi:
10.1094/MPMI-09-19-0248-R. Epub 2019 Dec 18.

Hydrogen Peroxide Metabolism in Interkingdom Interaction Between Bacteria and
Wheat Seeds and Seedlings.

Gerna D(1), Roach T(1), Mitter B(2), St√∂ggl W(1), Kranner I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Center for Molecular Biosciences Innsbruck (CMBI),
University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria.
(2)Bioresources Unit, Austrian Institute of Technology GmbH (AIT), Tulln,
Austria.

In endophytes, the abundance of genes coding for enzymes processing reactive
oxygen species (ROS), including hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), argues for a crucial
role of ROS metabolism in plant-microbe interaction for plant colonization. Here,
we studied H2O2 metabolism of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) seeds and their 
microbiota during germination and early seedling growth, the most vulnerable
stages in the plant life cycle. Treatment with hot steam diminished the seed
microbiota, and these seeds produced less extracellular H2O2 than untreated
seeds. Using a culture-dependent approach, Pantoea and Pseudomonas genera were
the most abundant epiphytes of dry untreated seeds. Incubating intact seedlings
from hot steam-treated seeds with Pantoea strains triggered H2O2 production,
whereas Pseudomonas strains dampened H2O2 levels, attributable to higher catalase
activities. The genus Pantoea was much less represented among seedling endophytes
than genus Pseudomonas, with other endophytic genera, including Bacillus and
Paenibacillus, also possessing high catalase activities. Overall, our results
show that certain bacteria of the seed microbiota are able to modulate the
extracellular redox environment during germination and early seedling growth, and
high catalase activity is proposed as a key trait of seed endophytes.

DOI: 10.1094/MPMI-09-19-0248-R 
PMID: 31631769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

