
1. Bioresour Technol. 2020 Apr;301:122760. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.122760. Epub
2020 Jan 10.

Insight into the microbiology of nitrogen cycle in the dairy manure composting
process revealed by combining high-throughput sequencing and quantitative PCR.

Zhong XZ(1), Zeng Y(1), Wang SP(1), Sun ZY(2), Tang YQ(1), Kida K(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Architecture and Environment, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan,
China.
(2)College of Architecture and Environment, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan,
China. Electronic address: szy@scu.edu.cn.

Nitrogen cycling during composting process is not yet fully understood. This
study explored the key genes involved in nitrogen cycling during dairy manure
composting process using high-throughput sequencing and quantitative PCR
technologies. Results showed that nitrogen fixation occurred mainly during the
thermophilic and cooling phases, and significantly enhanced the nitrogen content 
of compost. Thermoclostridium stercorarium was the main diazotroph. Ammonia
oxidation occurred during the maturation phase and Nitrosomonas sp. was the most 
abundant ammonia oxidizing bacteria. Denitrification contributed to the greatest 
nitrogen loss during the composting process. The nirK community was dominated by 
Luteimonas sp. and Achromobacter sp., while the nirS community was dominated by
Alcaligenes faecalis and Pseudomonas stutzeri. The nosZ community varied in a
succession of Halomonas ilicicola, Pseudomonas flexibili and Labrenzia alba
dominated communities according to different composting phases. Based on these
results, nitrogen cycling models for different phases of the dairy manure
composting process were established.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.122760 
PMID: 31972401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

