
1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2020 Oct 1;202:110854. doi: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.110854.
Epub 2020 Jun 22.

Enhancing the atrazine tolerance of Pennisetum americanum (L.) K. Schum by
inoculating with indole-3-acetic acid producing strain Pseudomonas chlororaphis
PAS18.

Jiang Z(1), Jiang D(1), Zhou Q(1), Zheng Z(1), Cao B(1), Meng Q(1), Qu J(1), Wang
Y(1), Zhang Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Resources & Environment, Northeast Agricultural University, Harbin, 
150030, PR China.
(2)School of Resources & Environment, Northeast Agricultural University, Harbin, 
150030, PR China. Electronic address: zhangying_neau@163.com.

Atrazine as a kind of herbicide could cause damage to the sensitive plants.
Though plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) have been proven with the
potential to enhance the resistance of plants against various abiotic stresses,
whether it could alleviate phytotoxicity caused by atrazine is sill unclear. In
present study, the effects of strain Pseudomonas chlororaphis PAS18, a kind of
PGPR enable to produce indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), on the growth and
physiological responses of Pennisetum americanum (L.) K.Schum seedlings were
investigated under three different levels (0, 20 and 100 mg kg-1) of atrazine in 
pot experiment. The results suggest that strain PAS18 could alleviate the growth 
and physiological interference caused by 20 mg kg-1 of atrazine. Physiological
analysis showed strain PAS18 could further decrease the damaged extent of
photosystem II, superoxide radical level and malondialdehyde content of test
plant via up-regulating psbA expression, enhancing superoxide dismutase activity 
and reducing atrazine accumulation in the test plant. Moreover, ion flux
measurements suggest that IAA could alleviate the Ca2+ exflux state of the test
plant which caused by atrazine stress. Hence, it is plausible that strain PAS18
could alleviate atrazine-induced stress to P. americanum by enhancing the
photosystem II repair and antioxidant defense ability as well as balancing the
Ca2+ flux.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.110854 
PMID: 32585484  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

