
1. Foods. 2020 May 14;9(5). pii: E633. doi: 10.3390/foods9050633.

Spoilage Potential of Pseudomonas (P. fragi, P. putida) and LAB (Leuconostoc
mesenteroides, Lactobacillus sakei) Strains and Their Volatilome Profile During
Storage of Sterile Pork Meat Using GC/MS and Data Analytics.

Papadopoulou OS(1)(2), Iliopoulos V(1), Mallouchos A(3), Panagou EZ(1),
Chorianopoulos N(2), Tassou CC(2), Nychas GE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Microbiology and Biotechnology of Foods, School of Food and
Nutritional Sciences, Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition,
Agricultural University of Athens, Iera Odos 75, 11855-Athens, Attica, Greece.
(2)Hellenic Agricultural Organization "DEMETER", Institute of Technology of
Agricultural Products, Sof. Venizelou 1, 14123 Lycovrissi, Attica, Greece.
(3)Laboratory of Food Chemistry and Analysis, School of Food and Nutritional
Sciences, Department of Food Science and Human Nutrition, Agricultural University
of Athens, Iera Odos 75, 11855-Athens, Attica Greece.

The aim of the present study was to investigate the evolution of the volatile
compounds of aerobically stored sterile pork meat as a consequence of the
metabolic activities of inoculated specific spoilage microorganisms. Thus,
Pseudomonas fragi, Pseudomonas putida, Lactobacillus sakei and Leuconostoc
mesenteroides were inoculated in monocultures, dual cultures and a cocktail
culture of all strains on sterile pork meat stored aerobically at 4 and 10 Â°C.
Microbiological and sensory analyses, as well as pH measurements, were performed,
along with headspace solid-phase microextraction gas chromatography/mass
spectroscopy (headspace SPME-GC/MS) analysis. Data analytics were used to
correlate the volatile compounds with the spoilage potential of each stain using 
multivariate data analysis. The results for the sensory discrimination showed
that the volatiles that dominated in spoiled samples consisted mostly of
alcohols, ketones and two esters (butyl acetate and ethyl acetate), while at
fresh samples, dimethyl sulfide, furans, acetoin and ethyl lactate were detected.
On the other hand, 2-butanone, diacetyl and acetaldehyde were among the volatile 
compounds that were mainly correlated with the inoculated meat during storage. In
addition, P. fragi was positively correlated with a higher number of volatiles
compared to the other strains, strengthening the hypothesis that volatile
compound production is strain-dependent.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9050633 
PMCID: PMC7278706
PMID: 32423080 

