
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 May 2;320:108543. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108543. Epub 2020 Jan 28.

Milk fat influences proteolytic enzyme activity of dairy Pseudomonas species.

Zhang D(1), Palmer J(1), Teh KH(2), Calinisan MMA(3), Flint S(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Food and Advanced Technology, Massey University, Private Bag 11 222,
Palmerston North 4442, New Zealand.
(2)School of Food and Advanced Technology, Massey University (Albany), Auckland
0632, New Zealand.
(3)Institute of Food Sciences, Singapore Institute of Technology, 319194,
Singapore.
(4)School of Food and Advanced Technology, Massey University, Private Bag 11 222,
Palmerston North 4442, New Zealand. Electronic address: s.h.flint@massey.ac.nz.

This study investigated the effect of growth conditions on proteolytic activity
of six Pseudomonas strains, (Pseudomonas fragi DZ1, Pseudomonas koreensis DZ138, 
Pseudomonas rhodesiae DZ351, Pseudomonas fluorescens DZ390, Pseudomonas synxantha
DZ832 and Pseudomonas lundensis DZ845), isolated from raw milk. The proteolytic
activity of all Pseudomonas strains in dairy media (skim milk and whole milk) was
significantly higher (p < 0.05) than in non-dairy media (TSB), with most activity
from Pseudomonas grown in whole milk. The proteolytic activity from P. lundensis 
DZ845 grown in TSB with the addition of 5% (w/v) butter was higher than other
dairy ingredients added to TSB and the amount of proteolytic activity increased
with increasing concentrations of butter (from 5 to 15%). P. rhodesiae DZ351
showed little proteolytic activity in all TSB supplemented with dairy
ingredients. Only four of the six strains produced one protease of 47 kDa when
grown in TSB. However, all six strains were able to produce at least one type of 
proteases in milk medium. For P. lundensis DZ845, a 12% casein zymography gel
revealed that the presence of butter could induce proteolytic activity. This is
the first study showing the effect of milk fat (butter) on the proteolytic
activity of Pseudomonas. This highlights the greater vulnerability of whole milk 
compared to skim milk to proteolytic activity.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108543 
PMID: 32028204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

