
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 May;70(5):3049-3054. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004129.
Epub 2020 Apr 3.

Pseudomonas hydrolytica sp. nov., multiple polymer-degrading bacteria isolated
from soil in China.

Zhou S(1), Wang Y(1), Xia H(1), Liu D(1), Chen S(1), Li F.

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Northeast Normal University, Changchun, PR China.

A short rod-shaped, Gram-stain-negative strain that can degrade multiple polymers
was isolated from forest soil in China and designated as DSWY01T. The results of 
16S rRNA gene sequence analysis showed that this isolate shared high similarities
with Pseudomonas alcaliphila NBRC 102411T (99.3 %), Pseudomonas mendocina NBRC
14162T (99.2%) and Pseudomonas oleovorans NBRC 13583T (99.0%). The results of
phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequence and multilocus sequence
analysis (recA, gyrB, nuoD, glnS and rpoD) indicated that strain DSWY01T belongs 
to the genus Pseudomonas and is a member of the P. oleovorans group in an
independent branch. The average nucleotide identity and digital DNA-DNA
hybridization between the genome of strain DSWY01T and the genomes of other
species (ANIb 77.72-89.65 %; GGDC 15.50-31.10 %) showed that the isolate
represents a novel species. The DNA G+C content of strain DSWY01T was 63.67 mol%,
and the major cellular fatty acids (>15 %) were a mixture of
C18 : 1ω7c/C18 : 1ω6c and C16 : 0. The polar lipids were diphosphatidylglycerol, 
phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylcholine and two
unidentified lipids, and the major quinone was CQ-10. The morphological,
physiological and biochemical characteristics of the isolate were then compared
with those of reference type strains. The isolate differed considerably from its 
closest relatives and is representative of a novel species of Pseudomonas, for
which the name Pseudomonas hydrolytica sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is
DSWY01T (=DSM 106702T=CCTCC AB 2018053T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004129 
PMID: 32242797  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

