
1. Microb Biotechnol. 2020 Sep;13(5):1562-1580. doi: 10.1111/1751-7915.13598.

Secondary metabolites from plant-associated Pseudomonas are overproduced in
biofilm.

Rieusset L(1), Rey M(1), Muller D(1), Vacheron J(2), Gerin F(1), Dubost A(1),
Comte G(1), Prigent-Combaret C(1).

Author information: 
(1)CNRS UMR-5557, INRAe UMR-1418, Ecologie Microbienne, VetAgroSup, Université de
Lyon, Université Claude Bernard Lyon1, 43 Boulevard du 11 novembre 1918,
Villeurbanne, 69622, France.
(2)Department of Fundamental Microbiology, University of Lausanne, Lausanne,
1015, Switzerland.

Plant rhizosphere soil houses complex microbial communities in which
microorganisms are often involved in intraspecies as well as interspecies and
inter-kingdom signalling networks. Some members of these networks can improve
plant health thanks to an important diversity of bioactive secondary metabolites.
In this competitive environment, the ability to form biofilms may provide major
advantages to microorganisms. With the aim of highlighting the impact of
bacterial lifestyle on secondary metabolites production, we performed a
metabolomic analysis on four fluorescent Pseudomonas strains cultivated in
planktonic and biofilm colony conditions. The untargeted metabolomic analysis led
to the detection of hundreds of secondary metabolites in culture extracts.
Comparison between biofilm and planktonic conditions showed that bacterial
lifestyle is a key factor influencing Pseudomonas metabolome. More than 50% of
the detected metabolites were differentially produced according to planktonic or 
biofilm lifestyles, with the four Pseudomonas strains overproducing several
secondary metabolites in biofilm conditions. In parallel, metabolomic analysis
associated with genomic prediction and a molecular networking approach enabled us
to evaluate the impact of bacterial lifestyle on chemically identified secondary 
metabolites, more precisely involved in microbial interactions and plant-growth
promotion. Notably, this work highlights the major effect of biofilm lifestyle on
acyl-homoserine lactone and phenazine production in P. chlororaphis strains.

© 2020 The Authors. Microbial Biotechnology published by Society for Applied
Microbiology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-7915.13598 
PMCID: PMC7415375
PMID: 33000552 

