
1. Environ Int. 2020 Jun;139:105715. doi: 10.1016/j.envint.2020.105715. Epub 2020
Apr 18.

Contaminated in-house environment contributes to the persistence and transmission
of NDM-producing bacteria in a Chinese poultry farm.

Zhai R(1), Fu B(1), Shi X(1), Sun C(1), Liu Z(2), Wang S(1), Shen Z(1), Walsh
TR(3), Cai C(4), Wang Y(5), Wu C(6).

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Veterinary Medicine, China Agricultural University, Beijing, China.
(2)Agricultural Bio-pharmaceutical Laboratory, College of Chemistry and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Qingdao Agricultural University, Qingdao, China.
(3)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Veterinary Medicine, China Agricultural University, Beijing, China;
Department of Medical Microbiology and Infectious Disease, Division of Infection 
and Immunity, Heath Park Hospital, Cardiff, United Kingdom.
(4)China Australia Joint Laboratory for Animal Health Big Data Analytics, College
of Animal Science and Technology, Zhejiang Agricultural and Forestry University, 
Hangzhou, China; Research and Innovation Office, Murdoch University, Murdoch,
Australia.
(5)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Veterinary Medicine, China Agricultural University, Beijing, China.
Electronic address: wangyang@cau.edu.cn.
(6)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Veterinary Medicine, China Agricultural University, Beijing, China.
Electronic address: wucm@cau.edu.cn.

While carbapenem use is prohibited in the poultry production chain and
carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE) are absent from hatchery farms, New
Delhi metallo-β-lactamase-producing CRE contamination of commercial broiler
chicken farms (grow-out farms) can occur via living hosts such as flies. However,
it is not known whether the inanimate factors from in-house environment play a
role in the persistence of CRE on commercial farms. Herein, we monitored one
typical broiler house in Hebei Province, China, from January 2017 to April 2018. 
We collected 350 cloacal samples from four broiler batches along with 582
environmental samples (194 in the raising period and 388 in the vacancy period)
from sites including the surfaces of drooping boards, feeding troughs, nipple
drinkers, corridor floors, sewage trenches, and air. All samples were screened
for blaNDM and cultured for NDM-producing isolates. The resistance profiles,
genotypes, and genetic context of blaNDM in CRE isolates were further
characterized. Results showed that 1-day-old broilers, which were transferred
from a hatchery farm and negative for CRE, acquired blaNDM within 24 h of
transfer (2 days of age), with a detection rate of up to 18.6%. High blaNDM
detection rates (26.8%-31.4%) were obtained among all environmental samples
except air after standard cleaning and disinfection during the vacancy period.
blaNDM carriage rates (52.9%-72.9%) within the flocks remain stable and high
across the next three broiler batches. Overall, 279 NDM-producing bacteria,
including 259 Enterobacteriaceae (8 species), 14 Morganellaceae (3 species),
three Alcaligenes faecalis and three Pseudomonas putida isolates, were recovered 
from 85 (24.3%) cloacal and 101 (17.4%) environmental samples. Three NDM
variants, including NDM-5 (n = 181), NDM-1 (n = 92), and NDM-9 (n = 3), and a
novel NDM-like-metallo-β-lactamase (NLM, n = 3) were identified among the
samples. The predominant NDM-producing CRE species among the samples were
Klebsiella pneumoniae (CRKP; 32.6%, n = 91) and Escherichia coli (CREC; 27.2%,
n = 76). Both clonal and horizontal transmission of blaNDM and an overlap of
sequence types (STs) were observed in both CREC and CRKP from chicken and
environmental samples. Notably, ST6751 CREC and ST37 CRKP persisted throughout
the 16-month surveillance period. IncX3 (n = 197, 7 species), IncA/C2 (n = 41, 5 
species), and IncFII (n = 8, E. coli) were the three major blaNDM-carrying
plasmid types among the isolates. Although routine cleaning and disinfection
procedures and "all-in/all-out" management were performed, once introduced to the
farm environment, a diverse range of NDM-positive isolates may survive and
persist, becoming an important reservoir of NDM-positive CRE for broiler
chickens. Therefore, cleaning and disinfection procedures should be improved on
poultry farms to avoid cross-contamination of NDM-producing bacteria between
different batches of chickens, as well as further downstream in the poultry
production chain.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envint.2020.105715 
PMID: 32315891 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

