
1. Plant Dis. 2020 May;104(5):1445-1454. doi: 10.1094/PDIS-10-19-2176-RE. Epub 2020 
Mar 16.

Bacterial Brown Pit, a New Disease of Edible Mushrooms Caused by Mycetocola sp.

Hamidizade M(1), Taghavi SM(1), Martins SJ(2), Herschlag RA(2), Hockett KL(2),
Bull CT(2), Osdaghi E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Protection, College of Agriculture, Shiraz University,
Shiraz 71441-65186, Iran.
(2)Plant Pathology & Environmental Microbiology Department, The Pennsylvania
State University, University Park, PA 16802, U.S.A.

From September to December 2018, commercial button mushroom (Agaricus bisporus)
farms in central Iran were surveyed to monitor the causal agent(s) of browning
and blotch symptoms on mushroom caps. In addition to dozens of pseudomonads
(i.e., Pseudomonas tolaasii and Pseudomonas reactans), six slow-growing
gram-positive bacterial strains were isolated from blotched mushroom caps. These 
bacteria presented as creamy white, circular, smooth, nonfluorescent, and shiny
colonies with whole margins resembling members of Microbacteriaceae
(Actinobacteria). All of the actinobacterial strains were aggressively pathogenic
on cut cap surface of two edible mushrooms (i.e., A. bisporus and Pleurotus
eryngii), inducing brown pit symptoms 48 h postinoculation. The strains did not
induce symptoms on the vegetables tested (i.e., carrot, cucumber, and potato),
and they did not affect the growth of mycelium of tested plant-pathogenic fungi
(i.e., Acremonium sp., Fusarium spp., and Phytopythium sp.). Phylogeny of 16S
ribosomal RNA and multilocus sequence analysis of six housekeeping genes (i.e.,
atpD, dnaK, gyrB, ppK, recA, and rpoB) revealed that the bacterial strains belong
to the actinobacterial genus Mycetocola spp., whereas the species status of the
strains remains undetermined. Mushroom-associated Mycetocola species were
previously reported to be capable of detoxifying tolaasin, a toxin produced by P.
tolaasii, whereas the strains isolated in this study did not show tolaasin
detoxification activities. Altogether, this is the first report of a mushroom
disease caused by an actinobacterial species, and "bacterial brown pit" was
assigned as the common name of the disease.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS-10-19-2176-RE 
PMID: 32181723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

