
1. J Biotechnol. 2020 Mar 20;312:35-43. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.03.001. Epub
2020 Mar 3.

Tuning amino acid dehydrogenases with featured sequences for L-phosphinothricin
synthesis by reductive amination.

Cheng F(1), Li H(1), Zhang K(1), Li QH(1), Xie D(1), Xue YP(2), Zheng YG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Bioorganic Synthesis of Zhejiang Province, College of
Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou,
310014, PR China; The National and Local Joint Engineering Research Center for
Biomanufacturing of Chiral Chemicals, Zhejiang University of Technology,
Hangzhou, 310014, PR China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Bioorganic Synthesis of Zhejiang Province, College of
Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou,
310014, PR China; The National and Local Joint Engineering Research Center for
Biomanufacturing of Chiral Chemicals, Zhejiang University of Technology,
Hangzhou, 310014, PR China. Electronic address: xyp@zjut.edu.cn.

Biosynthesizing unnatural chiral amino acids is challenging due to the limited
reductive amination activity of amino acid dehydrogenase (AADH). Here, for the
asymmetric synthesis of l-phosphinothricin from
2-oxo-4-[(hydroxy)(methyl)phosphinoyl]butyric acid (PPO), a glutamate
dehydrogenase gene (named GluDH3) from Pseudomonas monteilii was selected, cloned
and expressed in Escherichia coli (E. coli). To boost its activity, a
"two-step"-based computational approach was developed and applied to select the
potential beneficial amino acid positions on GluDH3. l-phosphinothricin was
synthesized by GluDH-catalyzed asymmetric amination using the d-glucose
dehydrogenase from Exiguobacterium sibiricum (EsGDH) for NADPH regeneration.
Using lyophilized E. coli cells that co-expressed GluDH3_V375S and EsGDH, up to
89.04 g L-1 PPO loading was completely converted to l-phosphinothricin within
30 min at 35 °C with a space-time yield of up to 4.752 kg·L-1·d-1. The beneficial
substitution V375S with increased polar interactions between K90, T193, and
substrate PPO exhibited 168.2-fold improved catalytic efficiency (kcat/KM) and
344.8-fold enhanced specific activity. After the introduction of serine residues 
into other GluDHs at specific positions, forty engineered GluDHs exhibited the
catalytic functions of "glufosinate dehydrogenase" towards PPO.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2020.03.001 
PMID: 32135177 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

