
1. Polymers (Basel). 2020 Jul 13;12(7). pii: E1545. doi: 10.3390/polym12071545.

Bioflocculants Produced by Bacterial Strains Isolated from Palm Oil Mill Effluent
for Application in the Removal of Eriochrome Black T Dye from Water.

Abbas SZ(1), Yong YC(1), Ali Khan M(2), Siddiqui MR(2), Hakami AAH(2), Alshareef 
SA(2), Otero M(3), Rafatullah M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Biofuels Institute, School of Environment, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang
212013, China.
(2)Chemistry Department, College of Science, King Saud University, Riyadh 11451, 
Saudi Arabia.
(3)CESAM-Centre for Environmental and Marine Studies, Department of Environment
and Planning, University of Aveiro, Campus de Santiago, 3810-193 Aveiro,
Portugal.
(4)Division of Environmental Technology, School of Industrial Technology,
Universiti Sains Malaysia, Penang 11800, Malaysia.

Four strains of bioflocculant-producing bacteria were isolated from a palm oil
mill effluent (POME). The four bacterial strains were identified as Pseudomonas
alcaliphila (B1), Pseudomonas oleovorans (B2), Pseudomonas chengduensis (B3), and
Bacillus nitratireducens (B4) by molecular identification. Among the four
bacterial strains, Bacillus nitratireducens (B4) achieved the highest
flocculating activity (49.15%) towards kaolin clay suspension after eight hours
of cultivation time and was selected for further studies. The optimum conditions 
for Eriochrome Black T (EBT) flocculation regarding initial pH, type of cation,
and B4 dosage were determined to be pH 2, Ca2‚Å∫ cations, and a dosage of 250 mL/L 
of nutrient broth containing B4. Under these conditions, above 90% of EBT dye
removal was attained. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopic (FT-IR) analysis
of the bioflocculant revealed the presence of hydroxyl, alkyl, carboxyl, and
amino groups. This bioflocculant was demonstrated to possess a good flocculating 
activity, being a promissory, low-cost, harmless, and environmentally friendly
alternative for the treatment of effluents contaminated with dyes.

DOI: 10.3390/polym12071545 
PMCID: PMC7408152
PMID: 32668712 

