
1. ISME J. 2020 Sep 22. doi: 10.1038/s41396-020-00767-z. [Epub ahead of print]

Two-way microscale interactions between immigrant bacteria and plant leaf
microbiota as revealed by live imaging.

Steinberg S(1), Grinberg M(1), Beitelman M(1), Peixoto J(1)(2), Orevi T(1),
Kashtan N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Pathology and Microbiology, Robert H. Smith Faculty of
Agriculture, Food, and Environment, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, 76100,
Rehovot, Israel.
(2)Laboratory of Enzymology, Department of Cellular Biology, Biological Sciences 
Institute, University of Brasilia, Brasilia, DF, 70910-900, Brazil.
(3)Department of Plant Pathology and Microbiology, Robert H. Smith Faculty of
Agriculture, Food, and Environment, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, 76100,
Rehovot, Israel. nadav.kashtan@mail.huji.ac.il.

The phyllosphere - the aerial parts of plants - is an important microbial habitat
that is home to diverse microbial communities. The spatial organization of
bacterial cells on leaf surfaces is non-random, and correlates with leaf
microscopic features. Yet, the role of microscale interactions between bacterial 
cells therein is not well understood. Here, we ask how interactions between
immigrant bacteria and resident microbiota affect the spatial organization of the
combined community. By means of live imaging in a simplified in vitro system, we 
studied the spatial organization, at the micrometer scale, of the biocontrol
agent Pseudomonas fluorescens A506 and the plant pathogen P. syringae B728a when 
introduced to pear and bean leaf microbiota (the corresponding native plants of
these strains). We found significant co-localization of immigrant and resident
microbial cells at distances of a few micrometers, for both strains.
Interestingly, this co-localization was in part due to preferential attachment of
microbiota cells near newly formed P. fluorescens aggregates. Our results
indicate that two-way immigrant bacteria - resident microbiota interactions
affect the microscale spatial organizationÂ of leaf microbiota, and possibly that 
of other surface-related microbial communities.

DOI: 10.1038/s41396-020-00767-z 
PMID: 32963344 

