
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jun 10;11:1190. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01190. eCollection 
2020.

Genetic Organization of the aprX-lipA2 Operon Affects the Proteolytic Potential
of Pseudomonas Species in Milk.

Maier C(1), Huptas C(2), von Neubeck M(1), Scherer S(1)(2), Wenning M(3), Lücking
G(1).

Author information: 
(1)ZIEL Institute for Food and Health, Wissenschaftszentrum Weihenstephan,
Technische Universität München, Freising, Germany.
(2)Lehrstuhl für Mikrobielle Ökologie, Wissenschaftszentrum Weihenstephan,
Technische Universität München, Freising, Germany.
(3)Bavarian Health and Food Safety Authority (LGL), Oberschleißheim, Germany.

Psychrotolerant Pseudomonas species are a main cause of proteolytic spoilage of
ultra-high temperature (UHT) milk products due to the secretion of the
heat-resistant metallopeptidase AprX, which is encoded by the first gene of the
aprX-lipA2 operon. While the proteolytic property has been characterized for many
different Pseudomonas isolates, the underlying aprX-lipA2 gene organization was
only described for a few strains so far. In this study, the phylogenomic analysis
of 185 Pseudomonas type strains revealed that the presence of aprX is strongly
associated to a monophylum composed of 81 species, of which 83% carried the aprX 
locus. Furthermore, almost all type strains of known milk-relevant species were
shown to be members of the three monophyletic groups P. fluorescens, P.
gessardii, and P. fragi. In total, 22 different types of aprX-lipA2 genetic
organizations were identified in the genus, whereby 31% of the species tested
carried the type 1 operon structure consisting of eight genes (aprXIDEF prtAB
lipA2). Other genetic structures differed from type 1 mainly in the presence and 
location of genes coding for two lipases (lipA1 and lipA2) and putative
autotransporters (prtA and prtB). The peptidase activity of 129 strains, as
determined on skim milk agar and in UHT-milk, correlated largely with different
aprX-lipA2 gene compositions. Particularly, isolates harboring the type 1 operon 
were highly proteolytic, while strains with other operon types, especially ones
lacking prtA and prtB, exhibited significantly lower peptidase activities. In
conclusion, the phylogenomic position and the aprX-lipA2 gene organization
specify the proteolytic potential of Pseudomonas isolates. In addition, however, 
an interplay of several environmental factors and intrinsic traits influences
production and activity of AprX, leading to strain-specific proteolytic
phenotypes.

Copyright © 2020 Maier, Huptas, von Neubeck, Scherer, Wenning and Lücking.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01190 
PMCID: PMC7298200
PMID: 32587583 

