
1. Water Res. 2019 Nov 15;165:114979. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2019.114979. Epub 2019
Aug 13.

Selective enrichment of bacterial pathogens by microplastic biofilm.

Wu X(1), Pan J(2), Li M(2), Li Y(1), Bartlam M(3), Wang Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Pollution Processes and Environmental Criteria (Ministry of 
Education), Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environmental Remediation and Pollution
Control, College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Nankai University,
Tianjin, 300071, China.
(2)Institute for Advanced Study, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518060, China.
(3)College of Life Science, Nankai University, 300071, China. Electronic address:
bartlam@nankai.edu.cn.
(4)Key Laboratory of Pollution Processes and Environmental Criteria (Ministry of 
Education), Tianjin Key Laboratory of Environmental Remediation and Pollution
Control, College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Nankai University,
Tianjin, 300071, China. Electronic address: wangyy@nankai.edu.cn.

Microplastics have been found to be ubiquitous in freshwater ecosystems,
providing a novel substrate for biofilm formation. Here, we incubated biofilm on 
microplastics and two natural substrates (rock and leaf) under a controlled
environment to investigate the differences of microbial community structure,
antibiotic resistance gene (ARG) profiles, and ARG microbial hosts between
biofilms on three types of substrates. Results from high-throughput sequencing of
16S rRNA gene revealed that microplastic biofilm had a distinctive community
structure. Network analyses suggested that microplastic biofilm possessed the
highest node connected community, but with lower average path length, network
diameter and modularity compared with biofilm on two natural particles.
Metagenomic analyses further revealed microplastic biofilm with broad-spectrum
and distinctive resistome. Specifically, according to taxonomic annotation of ARG
microbial hosts, two opportunisitic human pathogens (Pseudomonas monteilii,
Pseudomonas mendocina) and one plant pathogen (Pseudomonas syringae) were
detected only in the microplastic biofilm, but not in biofilms formed on natural 
substrates. Our findings suggest that microplastic is a novel microbial niche and
may serve as a vector for ARGs and pathogens to new environment in river water,
generating freshwater environmental risk and exerting adverse impacts on human
health.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2019.114979 
PMID: 31445309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

