
1. Vaccines (Basel). 2020 Sep 4;8(3). pii: E503. doi: 10.3390/vaccines8030503.

Bacillus subtilis and Pseudomonas fluorescens Trigger Common and Distinct
Systemic Immune Responses in Arabidopsis thaliana Depending on the Pathogen
Lifestyle.

Nguyen NH(1), Trotel-Aziz P(1), Villaume S(1), Rabenoelina F(1), Schwarzenberg
A(2), Nguema-Ona E(2), Cl√©ment C(1), Baillieul F(1), Aziz A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Induced Resistance and Plant Bioprotection EA 4707, SFR Condorcet FR-CNRS
3417, UFR Sciences, Campus Moulin de la Housse, University of Reims, CEDEX 02,
51687 Reims, France.
(2)Centre Mondial de l'Innovation, Groupe Roullier, 35401 Saint-Malo, France.

Plants harbor various beneficial bacteria that modulate their innate immunity,
resulting in induced systemic resistance (ISR) against various pathogens.
However, the immune mechanisms underlying ISR triggered by Bacillus spp. and
Pseudomonas spp. against pathogens with different lifestyles are not yet clearly 
elucidated. Here, we show that root drenching of Arabidopsis plants with
Pseudomonas fluorescensPTA-CT2 and Bacillus subtilis PTA-271 can induce ISR
against the necrotrophic fungus B. cinerea and the hemibiotrophic bacterium
Pseudomonas syringae Pst DC3000. In the absence of pathogen infection, both
beneficial bacteria do not induce any consistent change in systemic immune
responses. However, ISR relies on priming faster and robust expression of marker 
genes for the salicylic acid (SA), jasmonic acid (JA), and ethylene (ET)
signaling pathways upon pathogen challenge. These responses are also associated
with increased levels of SA, JA, and abscisic acid (ABA) in the leaves of
bacterized plants after infection. The functional study also points at priming of
the JA/ET and NPR1-dependent defenses as prioritized immune pathways in ISR
induced by both beneficial bacteria against B. cinerea. However, B.
subtilis-triggered ISR against Pst DC3000 is dependent on SA, JA/ET, and NPR1
pathways, whereas P. fluorescens-induced ISR requires JA/ET and NPR1 signaling
pathways. The use of ABA-insensitive mutants also pointed out the crucial role of
ABA signaling, but not ABA concentration, along with JA/ET signaling in primed
systemic immunity by beneficial bacteria against Pst DC3000, but not against B.
cinerea. These results clearly indicate that ISR is linked to priming plants for 
enhanced common and distinct immune pathways depending on the beneficial strain
and the pathogen lifestyle.

DOI: 10.3390/vaccines8030503 
PMID: 32899695 

