
1. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Sep 3;17(17). pii: E6422. doi:
10.3390/ijerph17176422.

Enhancement of Contact Lens Disinfection by Combining Disinfectant with Visible
Light Irradiation.

Hoenes K(1), Spellerberg B(2), Hessling M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Engineering and Mechatronics, Ulm University of Applied
Sciences, Albert-Einstein-Allee 55, 89081 Ulm, Germany.
(2)Institute of Medical Microbiology and Hygiene, University of Ulm,
Albert-Einstein-Allee 11, 89081 Ulm, Germany.

Multiple use contact lenses have to be disinfected overnight to reduce the risk
of infections. However, several studies demonstrated that not only microorganisms
are affected by the disinfectants, but also ocular epithelial cells, which come
into contact via residuals at reinsertion of the lens. Visible light has been
demonstrated to achieve an inactivation effect on several bacterial and fungal
species. Combinations with other disinfection methods often showed better results
compared to separately applied methods. We therefore investigated contact lens
disinfection solutions combined with 405 nm irradiation, with the intention to
reduce the disinfectant concentration of ReNu Multiplus, OptiFree Express or
AOSept while maintaining adequate disinfection results due to combination
benefits. Pseudomonads, staphylococci and E. coli were studied with disk
diffusion assay, colony forming unit (cfu) determination and growth delay. A log 
reduction of 4.49 was achieved for P. fluorescens in 2 h for 40% ReNu Multiplus
combined with an irradiation intensity of 20 mW/cm2 at 405 nm. For AOSept the
combination effect was so strong that 5% of AOSept in combination with light
exhibited the same result as 100% AOSept alone. Combination of disinfectants with
visible violet light is therefore considered a promising approach, as a reduction
of potentially toxic ingredients can be achieved.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17176422 
PMCID: PMC7504152
PMID: 32899295 

