
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Oct 2;10(1):16436. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-73469-3.

Ecotoxicity of soil contaminated with diesel fuel and biodiesel.

Hawrot-Paw M(1), Koniuszy A(2), Zając G(3), Szyszlak-Bargłowicz J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Renewable Energy Engineering, West Pomeranian University of
Technology, Pawla VI 1, 71-459, Szczecin, Poland.
malgorzata.hawrot-paw@zut.edu.pl.
(2)Department of Renewable Energy Engineering, West Pomeranian University of
Technology, Pawla VI 1, 71-459, Szczecin, Poland.
(3)Department of Power Engineering and Transportation, Faculty of Production
Engineering, University of Life Sciences in Lublin, Gleboka 28, 20-612, Lublin,
Poland.

Fuels and their components accumulate in soil, and many soil organisms are
exposed to this pollution. Compared to intensive research on the effect of
conventional fuel on soil, very few studies have been conducted on soil
ecotoxicity of biofuels. Considering the limited information available, the
present study evaluated the changes caused by the presence of biodiesel and
diesel fuel in soil. The reaction of higher plants and soil organisms (microbial 
communities and invertebrates) was analysed. Conventional diesel oil and two
types of biodiesel (commercial and laboratory-made) were introduced into the
soil. Two levels of contamination were applied-5 and 15% (w/w per dry matter of
soil). The plate method was used to enumerate microorganisms from soil
contaminated with biodiesel and diesel fuel. Phytotoxicity tests were conducted
by a 3-day bioassay based on the seed germination and root growth of higher plant
species (Sorghum saccharatum and Sinapis alba). Fourteen-day ecotoxicity tests on
earthworm were performed using Eisenia fetida. Based on the results of the
conducted tests it was found out that the organisms reacted to the presence of
fuels in a diverse manner. As to the microorganisms, both the growth and
reduction of their number were noted. The reaction depended on the group of
microorganisms, type of fuel and dose of contamination. The lipolytic and
amylolytic microorganisms as well as Pseudomonas fluorescens bacteria were
particularly sensitive to the presence of fuels, especially biodiesel. Fuels,
even at a high dose, stimulated the growth of fungi. Monocotyledonous sugar
sorghum plants were more sensitive to the presence of fuels than dicotyledonous
white mustard. There was also a significant negative impact of contamination
level on plant growth and development. Biodiesel, to a greater extent than
conventional fuel, adversely affected the survival and volume of earthworms.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-73469-3 
PMID: 33009483 

