
1. Environ Microbiol. 2020 Sep 30. doi: 10.1111/1462-2920.15264. [Epub ahead of
print]

NanoSIMS sample preparation decreases isotope enrichment: magnitude, variability 
and implications for single-cell rates of microbial activity.

Meyer NR(1), Fortney J(1), Dekas AE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth System Science, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, 94305.

The activity of individual microorganisms can be measured within environmental
samples by detecting uptake of isotope-labeled substrates using nano-scale
secondary ion mass spectrometry (nanoSIMS). Recent studies have demonstrated that
sample preparation can decrease 13 C and 15 N enrichment in bacterial cells,
resulting in underestimates of activity. Here, we explore this effect with a
variety of preparation types, microbial lineages, and isotope labels to determine
its consistency and therefore potential for correction. Specifically, we
investigated the impact of different protocols for fixation, nucleic acid
staining, and catalyzed reporter deposition fluorescence in situ hybridization
(CARD-FISH) on >14,500 archaeal and bacterial cells (Methanosarcina acetivorans, 
Sulfolobus acidocaldarius, and Pseudomonas putida) enriched in 13 C, 15 N, 18 O, 
2 H, and/or 34 S. We found these methods decrease isotope enrichments by up to
80% - much more than previously reported - and that the effect varies by taxa,
growth phase, isotope label, and applied protocol. We make recommendations for
how to account for this effect experimentally and analytically. We also
re-evaluate published nanoSIMS datasets, and revise estimated microbial turnover 
times in the marine subsurface and nitrogen fixation rates in pelagic unicellular
cyanobacteria. When sample preparation is accounted for, cell-specific rates
increase and are more consistent with modeled and bulk rates. This article is
protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/1462-2920.15264 
PMID: 33000528 

