
1. Braz J Microbiol. 2020 Jun 1. doi: 10.1007/s42770-020-00303-3. [Epub ahead of
print]

Decoding social behaviors in a glycerol dependent bacterial consortium during
Reactive Blue 28 degradation.

Nanjani S(1), Rawal K(1), Keharia H(2).

Author information: 
(1)P. G. Department of Biosciences, Sardar Patel University, UGC-Centre of
Advanced Study, Vadtal Road, Bakrol, Gujarat, 388315, India.
(2)P. G. Department of Biosciences, Sardar Patel University, UGC-Centre of
Advanced Study, Vadtal Road, Bakrol, Gujarat, 388315, India. haresh970@gmail.com.

Biodegradation of reactive azo dyes has been an arduous problem for decades.
Several efficient biosystems have been proposed for dye degradation, but most of 
them are dependent on the availability of costly co-substrates such as peptone,
yeast extract, and/or glucose. The present study describes the azo dye
degradation by a bacterial consortium using glycerol as a sole co-substrate. The 
consortium was developed from a mixed bacterial culture obtained upon enrichment 
of soil sediment for Reactive Blue 28 (RB28) decolorization in the presence of
glycerol (0.1%; v/v). The consortium with three bacterial species, i.e.,
Stenotrophomonas acidaminiphila APG1, Cellulomonas sp. APG4, and Pseudomonas
stutzeri APG2, designated as "SCP," decolorized 92% of 100 ppm dye in 96 h. The
intricacies of the interactions existing within the members of the consortium
were resolved by a simple and unique analysis called "BSocial." Among all the
members, Cellulomonas sp. APG4 exerted a net-positive impact for decolorization
(%) on the consortium. The net fitness of the community increased when all the
three species were present, and thus, all of them were selected for further
analysis. Moreover, APG4 seemed to be central in the reductive decolorization as 
it possessed the highest reductase activity. The dye degradation by the
consortium was demonstrated by UV-Visible spectroscopy, HPTLC, and FTIR
spectroscopy of control and decolorized cell-free supernatant. The LC-ESI-MS
analysis of metabolites extracted from decolorized cell-free medium led to the
identification of degradation products, thus leading us to propose the plausible 
pathway for degradation of RB28 by bacterial consortium.

DOI: 10.1007/s42770-020-00303-3 
PMID: 32483666 

