
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Apr 9;11:639. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00639. eCollection
2020.

Modeling the Growth and Interaction Between Brochothrix thermosphacta,
Pseudomonas spp., and Leuconostoc gelidum in Minced Pork Samples.

Cauchie E(1), Delhalle L(1), Baré G(1), Tahiri A(1), Taminiau B(1), Korsak N(1), 
Burteau S(2), Fall PA(2), Farnir F(1), Daube G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Sciences, Fundamental and Applied Research for Animal and
Health, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Liège, Liège, Belgium.
(2)Quality Partner sa, Liège, Belgium.

The aim of this study was to obtain the growth parameters of specific spoilage
micro-organisms previously isolated in minced pork (MP) samples and to develop a 
three-spoilage species interaction model under different storage conditions.
Naturally contaminated samples were used to validate this approach by considering
the effect of the food microbiota. Three groups of bacteria were inoculated on
irradiated samples, in mono- and in co-culture experiments (n = 1152):
Brochothrix thermosphacta, Leuconostoc gelidum, and Pseudomonas spp. (Pseudomonas
fluorescens and Pseudomonas fragi). Samples were stored in two food packaging
[food wrap and modified atmosphere packaging (CO2 30%/O2 70%)] at three
isothermal conditions (4, 8, and 12°C). Analysis was carried out by using both
16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing and classical microbiology in order to estimate
bacterial counts during the storage period. Growth parameters were obtained by
fitting primary (Baranyi) and secondary (square root) models. The food packaging 
shows the highest impact on bacterial growth rates, which in turn have the
strongest influence on the shelf life of food products. Based on these results, a
three-spoilage species interaction model was developed by using the modified
Jameson-effect model and the Lotka Volterra (prey-predator) model. The modified
Jameson-effect model showed slightly better performances, with 40-86% out of the 
observed counts falling into the Acceptable Simulation Zone (ASZ). It only
concerns 14-48% for the prey-predator approach. These results can be explained by
the fact that the dynamics of experimental and validation datasets seems to
follow a Jameson behavior. On the other hand, the Lotka Volterra model is based
on complex interaction factors, which are included in highly variable intervals. 
More datasets are probably needed to obtained reliable factors, and so better
model fittings, especially for three- or more-spoilage species interaction
models. Further studies are also needed to better understand the interaction of
spoilage bacteria between them and in the presence of natural microbiota.

Copyright © 2020 Cauchie, Delhalle, Baré, Tahiri, Taminiau, Korsak, Burteau,
Fall, Farnir and Daube.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00639 
PMCID: PMC7160237
PMID: 32328055 

