
1. Crit Rev Biotechnol. 2020 Sep 9:1-18. doi: 10.1080/07388551.2020.1809990. [Epub
ahead of print]

Pseudomonas spp. as cell factories (MCFs) for value-added products: from rational
design to industrial applications.

Wang S(1), Cui J(1), Bilal M(2), Hu H(1), Wang W(1), Zhang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, School of Life Sciences and
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(2)School of Life Science and Food Engineering, Huaiyin Institute of Technology, 
Huaian, China.

In recent years, there has been increasing interest in microbial biotechnology
for the production of value-added compounds from renewable resources. Pseudomonas
species have been proposed as a suitable workhorse for high-value secondary
metabolite production because of their unique characteristics for fast growth on 
sustainable carbon sources, a clear inherited background, versatile intrinsic
metabolism with diverse enzymatic capacities, and their robustness in an extreme 
environment. It has also been demonstrated that metabolically engineered
Pseudomonas strains can produce several industrially valuable aromatic chemicals 
and natural products such as phenazines, polyhydroxyalkanoates, rhamnolipids, and
insecticidal proteins from renewable feedstocks with remarkably high yields
suitable for commercial application. In this review, we summarize cell factory
construction in Pseudomonas for the biosynthesis of native and non-native
bioactive compounds in P. putida, P. chlororaphis, P. aeruginosa, as well as
pharmaceutical proteins production by P. fluorescens. Additionally, some novel
strategies together with metabolic engineering strategies in order to improve the
biosynthetic abilities of Pseudomonas as an ideal chassis are discussed. Finally,
we proposed emerging opportunities, challenges, and essential strategies to
enable the successful development of Pseudomonas as versatile microbial cell
factories for the bioproduction of diverse bioactive compounds.

DOI: 10.1080/07388551.2020.1809990 
PMID: 32907412 

