
1. ACS Synth Biol. 2020 Sep 18;9(9):2537-2545. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.0c00312. Epub 
2020 Aug 14.

Recruiting a Phosphite Dehydrogenase/Formamidase-Driven Antimicrobial
Contamination System in Bacillus subtilis for Nonsterilized Fermentation of
Acetoin.

Guo ZW(1), Ou XY(1), Liang S(1), Gao HF(2), Zhang LY(2), Zong MH(1), Lou WY(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Food Science and Engineering, South China University of Technology, 
No. 381 Wushan Road, Guangzhou 510640, Guangdong, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, No. 15
Shangxiadian Road, Fuzhou 350002, Fujian, China.

Microbial contamination, especially in large-scale processes, is partly a
life-or-death issue for industrial fermentation. Therefore, the aim of this
research was to create an antimicrobial contamination system in Bacillus subtilis
168 (an ideal acetoin producer for its safety and acetoin synthesis potential).
First, introduction of the formamidase (FmdA) from Helicobacter pylori and the
phosphite dehydrogenase (PtxD) from Pseudomonas stutzeri enabled the engineered
Bacillus subtilis to simultaneously assimilate formamide and phosphite as
nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) sources. Thus, the engineered B.Â subtilis became 
the dominant population in a potentially contaminated system, while contaminated 
microbes were starved of key nutrients. Second, stepwise metabolic engineering
via chromosome-based overexpression of the relevant glycolysis and acetoin
biosynthesis genes led to a 1.12-fold increment in acetoin titer compared with
the starting host. Finally, with our best acetoin producer, 25.56 g/L acetoin was
synthesized in the fed-batch fermentation, with a productivity of 0.33 g/L/h and 
a yield of 0.37 g/g under a nonsterilized and antibiotic-free system. More
importantly, our work fulfills many key criteria of sustainable chemistry since
sterilization is abolished, contributing to the simplified fermentation operation
with lower energy consumption and cost.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.0c00312 
PMID: 32786356 

