
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jun 4;11:1100. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01100. eCollection
2020.

Characterization of a Novel Functional Trimeric Catechol 1,2-Dioxygenase From a
Pseudomonas stutzeri Isolated From the Gulf of Mexico.

Rodríguez-Salazar J(1), Almeida-Juarez AG(1), Ornelas-Ocampo K(1), Millán-López
S(1), Raga-Carbajal E(1), Rodríguez-Mejía JL(1), Muriel-Millán LF(1),
Godoy-Lozano EE(1), Rivera-Gómez N(1), Rudiño-Piñera E(1), Pardo-López L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biotecnología, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México,
Cuernavaca, Mexico.

Catechol 1,2 dioxygenases (C12DOs) have been studied for its ability to cleavage 
the benzene ring of catechol, the main intermediate in the degradation of
aromatic compounds derived from aerobic degradation of hydrocarbons. Here we
report the genome sequence of the marine bacterium Pseudomonas stutzeri GOM2,
isolated from the southwestern Gulf of Mexico, and the biochemical
characterization of its C12DO (PsC12DO). The catA gene, encoding PsC12DO of 312
amino acid residues, was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. Many C12DOs
have been described as dimeric enzymes including those present in Pseudomonas
species. The purified PsC12DO enzyme was found as an active trimer, with a
molecular mass of 107 kDa. Increasing NaCl concentration in the enzyme reaction
gradually reduced activity; in high salt concentrations (0.7 M NaCl) quaternary
structural analysis determined that the enzyme changes to a dimeric arrangement
and causes a 51% decrease in specific activity on catechol substrate. In
comparison with other C12DOs, our enzyme showed a broad range of action for
PsC12DO in solutions with pH values ranging from neutral to alkaline (70%). The
enzyme is still active after incubation at 50°C for 30 min and in low
temperatures to long term storage after 6 weeks at 4°C (61%). EDTA or Ca2+
inhibitors cause no drastic changes on residual activity; nevertheless, the
activity of the enzyme was affected by metal ions Fe3+, Zn2+ and was completely
inhibited by Hg2+. Under optimal conditions the k cat and K m values were 16.13
s-1 and 13.2 μM, respectively. To our knowledge, this is the first report
describing the characterization of a marine C12DOs from P. stutzeri isolated from
the Gulf of Mexico that is active in a trimeric state. We consider that our
enzyme has important features to be used in environments in presence of EDTA,
metals and salinity conditions.

Copyright © 2020 Rodríguez-Salazar, Almeida-Juarez, Ornelas-Ocampo, Millán-López,
Raga-Carbajal, Rodríguez-Mejía, Muriel-Millán, Godoy-Lozano, Rivera-Gómez,
Rudiño-Piñera and Pardo-López.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01100 
PMCID: PMC7287156
PMID: 32582076 

