
1. Mol Microbiol. 2020 Sep 17. doi: 10.1111/mmi.14605. [Epub ahead of print]

Unique regulator SrpR mediates crosstalk between efflux pumps TtgABC and SrpABC
in Pseudomonas putida B6-2 (DSM 28064).

Yao X(1)(2), Tao F(1), Tang H(1), Hu H(1), Wang W(1), Xu P(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, Joint International Research
Laboratory of Metabolic & Developmental Sciences, and School of Life Sciences &
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, People's Republic of
China.
(2)School of Chemistry and Life Sciences, Suzhou University of Science and
Technology, Suzhou, People's Republic of China.

Coexistence of multiple homologous resistance-nodulation-division (RND) efflux
pumps in bacteria is frequently described with overlapping substrate profiles.
However, it is unclear how bacteria balance their transcription in response to
changing environment. Here, we characterized a repressor, SrpR, in Pseudomonas
putida B6-2 (DSM 28064), whose coding gene is adjacent to srpS that encodes the
local repressor of the RND-type efflux pump SrpABC gene cluster. SrpR was
demonstrated as a specific repressor of another RND efflux pump gene cluster
ttgABC that is locally repressed by TtgR. SrpR was found to be capable of binding
to the ttgABC operator with a higher affinity (KD , 138.0 nM) compared to TtgR
(KD , 15.4 μM). EMSA and β-galactosidase assays were performed to survey possible
effectors of SrpR with 35 available chemicals being tested. Only
2,3,4-trichlorophenol was identified as an effector of SrpR. A regulation model
was then proposed, representing a novel strategy for balancing the efflux systems
with partially overlapping substrate profiles. This study highlights
sophisticated interactions among the RND efflux pumps in a Pseudomonas strain,
which may endow bacteria with certain advantages in fluctuant environment.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/mmi.14605 
PMID: 32945019 

