
1. Vet Dermatol. 2020 Sep 29. doi: 10.1111/vde.12893. [Epub ahead of print]

Pyogranulomatous panniculitis in a domestic cat associated with Pseudomonas
luteola infection.

Milliron SM(1), Seyler ZG(2), Myers AN(1), Rodrigues Hoffmann A(1)(3), Hnot M(4),
Wiener DJ(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine &
Biomedical Science, Texas A&M University, 664 Raymond Stotzer Parkway, College
Station, TX, 77843, USA.
(2)Student of Veterinary Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical
Science, Texas A&M University, 664 Raymond Stotzer Parkway, College Station, TX, 
77843, USA.
(3)Dermatopathology Specialty Service, College of Veterinary Medicine &
Biomedical Science, Texas A&M University, 664 Raymond Stotzer Parkway, College
Station, TX, 77843, USA.
(4)VCA Hollywood Animal Hospital, 2864 Hollywood Blvd, Hollywood, FL, 33020, USA.

Pseudomonas luteola, a pathogen causing disease in humans, has in animals been
reported only in rainbow trout and ferrets. This case report describes
pyogranulomatous panniculitis in a cat associated with P. luteola infection.
Organisms were seen histologically and identified with PCR and sequencing.
Lesions resolved after treatment with marbofloxacin.

Publisher: Pseudomonas luteola, un pathogène de l’homme, a été décrit chez
l’animal seulement chez le furet et la truite arc en ciel. Ce cas clinique décrit
une panniculite pyogranulomateuse chez un chat associée à une infection à P.
luteola. Les organismes ont été vus à l’examen histopathologique et identifiés
par PCR et séquençage. Les lésions se sont résolues après un traitement à la
marbofloxacine.Publisher: Pseudomonas luteola, un patógeno que causa una
enfermedad en los seres humanos, se ha reportado en animales solo en truchas arco
iris y hurones. Este caso clínico describe una paniculitis piogranulomatosa en un
gato asociada con una infección por P. luteola. Los organismos se observaron
histológicamente y se identificaron mediante PCR y secuenciación. Las lesiones se
resolvieron después del tratamiento con marbofloxacina.Publisher: Pseudomonas
luteola, ein Pathogen welches beim Menschen Erkrankungen verursacht, wurde bisher
bei Tieren nur bei der Regenbogenforelle und beim Frettchen beschrieben. Dieser
Fallbericht beschreibt eine pyogranulomatöse Pannikulitis bei einer Katze im
Zusammenhang mit einer P. luteola Infektion. Es wurden histologisch Organismen
gesehen, die mittels PCR identifiziert und sequenziert wurden. Die Veränderungen 
verschwanden nach einer Behandlung mit Marbofloxacin.Publisher:
人に病気をもたらす病原体であるPseudomonas luteolaは、動物ではニジマスおよびフェレットのみ報告されている。 本症例報告は、P.
luteola感染に関連した猫の化膿性肉芽腫炎について説明している。 微生物は組織学的に検出され、PCRおよびシーケンシングにより同定された。
病変は、マルボフロキサシンによる治療後に解消した。.Publisher: 卢埃拉假单胞菌(Pseudomonas
luteola)是引起人类疾病的病原菌，动物报道仅见于虹鳟和雪貂。本病例报告描述了卢埃拉假单胞菌感染造成的猫脓性肉芽肿性脂膜炎。组织学观察到微生物，并由PCR和测
序鉴定。马波沙星治疗后病变消退。.Publisher: Pseudomonas luteola é um patógeno causador de doença 
em humanos e, em animais, há relatos de sua ocorrência apenas em furões e trutas 
arco-íris. Este relato descreve um caso de paniculite piogranulomatosa em um gato
associada à infecção por P. luteola. Os microrganismos foram observados
histologicamente e identificados por PCR e sequenciamento. As lesões foram
resolvidas após tratamento com marbofloxacino.
© 2020 ESVD and ACVD.

DOI: 10.1111/vde.12893 
PMID: 32991013 

