
1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2020 Sep 15;201:110879. doi:
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.110879. Epub 2020 Jun 16.

New application of rutin: Repair the toxicity of emerging perfluoroalkyl
substance to Pseudomonas stutzeri.

Qian Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Zuh AA(1), Qiao W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Engineering, College of Biology and the
Environment, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing, 210037, China.
(2)Department of Environmental Engineering, College of Biology and the
Environment, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing, 210037, China. Electronic
address: hgqwc@njfu.edu.cn.

Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFASs) are toxic to microorganisms, thereby 
affecting microbial communities in sludge and soil, but how to repair the
toxicity of microorganisms remains unclear. In this study, rutin, an antioxidant,
was added into a culture medium with an aerobic denitrification bacteria,
Pseudomonas stutzeri, under the exposure of sodium
perfluorononyloxy-benzenesulfonate (OBS) to evaluate the repair mechanisms of
rutin to the toxicity of OBS to the bacteria. The results showed that rutin could
repair the damage of OBS to cell structures, and reduce the death rates of the
bacteria under OBS exposure. The dosage of rutin reduced the effect on the
inhibition of denitrification ability of P. stutzeri under OBS exposure. Compared
with the bacteria exposed to single OBS, the dosage of rutin resulted in that the
death rates recovered from 96.2% to 66.4%, the growth inhibition rate decreased
from 46.5% to 15.8%, the total nitrogen removal rate recovered from 66.9% to
100%, and the NO2- content recovered from 34.5 mg/L to 0.22 mg/L. The expressions
of key denitrification genes (napA, nirS, norB, nosZ) were recovered after adding
rutin under OBS exposure. Rutin changed the positive rate of reactive oxygen
species, the relative superoxide dismutase and catalase activities in the
bacteria which exposed to OBS. The mechanism by which rutin repaired the toxicity
of OBS to P. stutzeri related to inhibiting the activities of antioxidant and
denitrification enzymes rather than affecting the expressions of genes involved
in these enzymes. This study sheds light on the repair method of micro-organics
and reveals the repair mechanisms under PFASs exposure.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.110879 
PMID: 32559694  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

