
1. Chemosphere. 2020 Nov;258:127148. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2020.127148. Epub
2020 May 21.

Removal of gaseous tetrahydrofuran via a three-phase airlift bioreactor loaded
with immobilized cells of GFP-tagged Pseudomonas oleovorans GDT4.

Chen J(1), Ruan JW(2), Ye JX(2), Cheng ZW(2), Chen DZ(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Food and Pharmacy, Zhejiang Ocean University, Zhoushan, 316004,
China.
(2)College of Environment, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou, 310032,
China.
(3)College of Petrochemical and Environment, Zhejiang Ocean University, Zhoushan,
316004, China; College of Environment, Zhejiang University of Technology,
Hangzhou, 310032, China. Electronic address: cdz@zjut.edu.cn.

Tetrahydrofuran (THF) is a common highly toxic cyclic aliphatic ether that
frequently exists in waste gases. Removal of gaseous THF is a serious issue with 
important environmental ramifications. A novel three-phase airlift bioreactor
(TPAB) loaded with immobilized cells was developed for efficient THF removal from
gas streams. An effective THF-degrading transformant, Pseudomonas oleovorans
GDT4, which contains the pTn-Mod-OTc-gfp plasmid and was tagged with a green
fluorescent protein (GFP), was constructed. Continuous treatment of
THF-containing waste gases was succeeded by the GFP-labelled cells immobilized
with calcium alginate and activated carbon fiber in the TPAB for 60 days with
>90% removal efficiency. The number of fluorescent cells in the beads reached
1.7 × 1011 cells·g-1 of bead on day 10, accounting for 83.3% of the total number 
of cells. The amount further increased to 3.0 × 1011 cells·g-1 of bead on day 40.
However, it decreased to 2.5 × 1011 cells·g-1 of bead with a substantial increase
in biomass in the liquid because of cell leakage and hydraulic shock. PCR-DGGE
revealed that P. oleovorans was the dominant microorganism throughout the entire 
operation. The maximum elimination capacity was affected by empty bed residence
time (EBRT). The capacity was only 25.9 g m-3·h-1 at EBRT of 80 s, whereas it
reached 37.8 g m-3·h-1 at EBRT of 140 s. This work provides an alternative method
for full-scale removal of gaseous THF and presents a useful tool for determining 
the biomass of a specific degrader in immobilized beads.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2020.127148 
PMID: 32535434 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

