
1. Bioresour Technol. 2020 Nov;316:123922. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123922. Epub
2020 Jul 30.

Aerobic denitrifying bacterial communities drive nitrate removal: Performance,
metabolic activity, dynamics and interactions of core species.

Li S(1), Zhang H(2), Huang T(1), Ma B(1), Miao Y(1), Shi Y(1), Xu L(1), Liu K(1),
Huang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Shaanxi Key Laboratory of Environmental Engineering, Key Laboratory of
Northwest Water Resource, Environment and Ecology, MOE, Xi'an University of
Architecture and Technology, Xi'an 710055, China; School of Environmental and
Municipal Engineering, Xi'an University of Architecture and Technology, Xi'an
710055, China.
(2)Shaanxi Key Laboratory of Environmental Engineering, Key Laboratory of
Northwest Water Resource, Environment and Ecology, MOE, Xi'an University of
Architecture and Technology, Xi'an 710055, China; School of Environmental and
Municipal Engineering, Xi'an University of Architecture and Technology, Xi'an
710055, China. Electronic address: zhanghaihan@xauat.edu.cn.

Three novel mix-cultured aerobic denitrifying bacteria (Mix-CADB) consortia named
D14, X21, and CL exhibited excellent total organic carbon (TOC) removal and
aerobic denitrification capacities. The TOC and nitrate removal efficiencies were
higher than 93.00% and 98.00%. The results of Biolog demonstrated that three
communities displayed high carbon metabolic activity. nirS gene sequencing and
ecological network model revealed that Pseudomonas stutzeri, Paracoccus sp., and 
Paracoccus denitrificans dominated in the D14, X21, and CL communities. The
dynamics and co-existence of core species in communities drove the nutrient
removal. Response surface methodology showed the predicted total nitrogen removal
efficiency reached 99.43% for D14 community. The three Mix-CADB consortia have
great potential for nitrogen-polluted aquatic water treatment because of their
strong adaptability and removal performance. These results will provide new
understanding of co-existence, interaction and dynamics of Mix-CADB consortia for
nitrogen removal in nitrogen-polluted aquatic ecosystems.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2020.123922 
PMID: 32758920 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

