
1. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2020 Oct 3. doi: 10.1007/s00216-020-02956-3. [Epub ahead of
print]

Macroporous epoxy-based monoliths for rapid quantification of Pseudomonas
aeruginosa by adsorption elution method optimized for qPCR.

Göpfert L(1), Klüpfel J(1), Heinritz C(1), Elsner M(1), Seidel M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Hydrochemistry, Chair of Analytical Chemistry and Water
Chemistry, Technical University of Munich, Marchioninistr. 17, 81377, Munich,
Germany.
(2)Institute of Hydrochemistry, Chair of Analytical Chemistry and Water
Chemistry, Technical University of Munich, Marchioninistr. 17, 81377, Munich,
Germany. michael.seidel@tum.de.

Pseudomonas aeruginosa contaminations in tap water systems have caused severe
health problems in both hospital and household settings. To ensure fast and
reliable detection, culture-independent methods are recommendable. However, the
typically low cell number in water samples requires sample enrichment prior to
analysis. Therefore, we developed and optimized an adsorption elution method
using monolithic adsorption filtration and subsequent centrifugal ultrafiltration
that can be combined with culture-independent detection methods. The principle of
adsorption of Pseudomonas aeruginosa by hydrophobic and ionic interactions was
studied in modified epoxy-based monoliths. Optimized conditions (5-L initial
sample volume at pH 3 filtered for 30 min through hydrolyzed monoliths (MAF-OH)
and eluted with beef extract glycine buffer at pH 9.5) achieved a recovery of
67.1 ± 1.2% and a concentration factor of 103. For the first time, we therefore
present a culture-independent approach for rapid enrichment and subsequent
molecular biological quantification of P. aeruginosa by qPCR from tap water
samples by monolithic adsorption filtration. The total enrichment and
quantification process takes 4 h. This work further stresses the versatility of
the monolithic adsorption filtration and its possibilities as a concentration
tool for culture-independent analytics of pathogenic bacteria in the
environment.Graphical abstract.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-020-02956-3 
PMID: 33011838 

