
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jun 15;8(6). pii: E902. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8060902.

Effect of Rearing Temperature on Growth and Microbiota Composition of Hermetia
illucens.

Raimondi S(1), Spampinato G(1), Macavei LI(1), Lugli L(1), Candeliere F(1), Rossi
M(1)(2), Maistrello L(1)(2), Amaretti A(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, 41125
Modena, Italy.
(2)BIOGEST-SITEIA, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, 42124 Reggio Emilia,
Italy.

The potential utilization of black soldier fly (Hermetia illucens) as food or
feed is interesting due to the nutritive value and the sustainability of the
rearing process. In the present study, larvae and prepupae of H. illucens were
reared at 20, 27, and 33 Â°C, to determine whether temperature affects the whole
insect microbiota, described using microbiological risk assessment techniques and
16S rRNA gene survey. The larvae efficiently grew across the tested temperatures.
Higher temperatures promoted faster larval development and greater final biomass 
but also higher mortality. Viable Enterobacteriaceae, Bacillus cereus,
Campylobacter, Clostridium perfringens, coagulase-positive staphylococci,
Listeriaceae, and Salmonella were detected in prepupae. Campylobacter and
Listeriaceae counts got higher with the increasing temperature. Based on 16S rRNA
gene analysis, the microbiota of larvae was dominated by Providencia (>60%) and
other Proteobateria (mainly Klebsiella) and evolved to a more complex composition
in prepupae, with a bloom of Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Bacilli, while
Providencia was still present as the main component. Prepupae largely shared the 
microbiota with the frass where it was reared, except for few lowly represented
taxa. The rearing temperature was negatively associated with the amount of
Providencia, and positively associated with a variety of other genera, such as
Alcaligenes, Pseudogracilibacillus, Bacillus, Proteus, Enterococcus, Pediococcus,
Bordetella, Pseudomonas, and Kerstersia. With respect to the microbiological risk
assessment, attention should be paid to abundant genera, such as Bacillus,
Myroides, Proteus, Providencia, and Morganella, which encompass species described
as opportunistic pathogens, bearing drug resistances or causing severe morbidity.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8060902 
PMCID: PMC7355568
PMID: 32549385 

