
1. Protein Expr Purif. 2020 Nov;175:105721. doi: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105721. Epub
2020 Aug 5.

Co-expression of Pseudomonas alcaligenes lipase and its specific foldase in
Pichia pastoris by a dual expression cassette strategy.

Zhang Z(1), Zhang X(2), Hao H(3), Gong X(3), Gu X(4).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, School of Life Sciences and
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China; China
Research Center, DuPont Industrial Bioscience, Shanghai, 200335, PR China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, School of Life Sciences and
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China.
(3)China Research Center, DuPont Industrial Bioscience, Shanghai, 200335, PR
China.
(4)China Research Center, DuPont Industrial Bioscience, Shanghai, 200335, PR
China. Electronic address: Xiaogang.Gu@dupont.com.

Lipomax is a commercialized foldase-dependent Pseudomonas lipase that was
previously expressed only in Pseudomonas strains. Here, using Pichia pastoris as 
the host, we report a new co-expression method that leads to the successful
production of Lipomax. The active Lipomax is extracellularly co-expressed with
its cognate foldase (LIM); and the purified enzyme mix has the optimum pH at pH
8.0 and an optimal temperature around 40 °C. N-glycosylation was observed for
Pichia produced Lipomax, and its reduction was shown to increase the lipolytic
activity. With different p-nitrophenyl esters as the substrates, the substrate
profiling analyses further indicate that Lipomax prefers esters with middle-long 
chain fatty acids, showing the highest specific activity to p-nitrophenyl
caprylate (C8). The extracellular co-expression of Lipomax and LIM in Pichia will
not only increase our ability to investigate additional eukaryotic hosts for
lipase expression, but also be of considerable value in analyzing other
foldase-dependent lipases.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pep.2020.105721 
PMID: 32763465 

