
1. ACS Synth Biol. 2020 Apr 17;9(4):883-892. doi: 10.1021/acssynbio.9b00515. Epub
2020 Mar 26.

Designing an Artificial Pathway for the Biosynthesis of a Novel Phenazine N-Oxide
in Pseudomonas chlororaphis HT66.

Guo S(1), Liu R(1), Wang W(1), Hu H(1)(2), Li Z(1), Zhang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, School of Life Sciences and
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, China.
(2)National Experimental Teaching Center for Life Sciences and Biotechnology,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, China.

Aromatic N-oxides are valuable due to their versatile chemical, pharmaceutical,
and agricultural applications. Natural phenazine N-oxides possess potent
biological activities and can be applied in many ways; however, few N-oxides have
been identified. Herein, we developed a microbial system to synthesize phenazine 
N-oxides via an artificial pathway. First, the N-monooxygenase NaphzNO1 was
predicted and screened in Nocardiopsis sp. 13-12-13 through a product comparison 
and gene sequencing. Subsequently, according to similarities in the chemical
structures of substrates, an artificial pathway for the synthesis of a phenazine 
N-oxide in Pseudomonas chlororaphis HT66 was designed and established using three
heterologous enzymes, a monooxygenase (PhzS) from P. aeruginosa PAO1, a
monooxygenase (PhzO) from P. chlororaphis GP72, and the N-monooxygenase NaphzNO1.
A novel phenazine derivative, 1-hydroxyphenazine N'10-oxide, was obtained in an
engineered strain, P. chlororaphis HT66-SN. The phenazine N-monooxygenase
NaphzNO1 was identified by metabolically engineering the phenazine-producing
platform P. chlororaphis HT66. Moreover, the function of NaphzNO1, which can
catalyze the conversion of 1-hydroxyphenazine but not that of 2-hydroxyphenazine,
was confirmed in vitro. Additionally, 1-hydroxyphenazine N'10-oxide demonstrated 
substantial cytotoxic activity against two human cancer cell lines, MCF-7 and
HT-29. Furthermore, the highest microbial production of 1-hydroxyphenazine
N'10-oxide to date was achieved at 143.4 mg/L in the metabolically engineered
strain P3-SN. These findings demonstrate that P. chlororaphis HT66 has the
potential to be engineered as a platform for phenazine-modifying gene
identification and derivative production. The present study also provides a
promising alternative for the sustainable synthesis of aromatic N-oxides with
unique chemical structures by N-monooxygenase.

DOI: 10.1021/acssynbio.9b00515 
PMID: 32197042 

