
1. Access Microbiol. 2019 Oct 29;1(10):e000067. doi: 10.1099/acmi.0.000067.
eCollection 2019.

High-quality draft genome sequences of Pseudomonas monteilii DSM 14164T,
Pseudomonas mosselii DSM 17497T, Pseudomonas plecoglossicida DSM 15088T,
Pseudomonas taiwanensis DSM 21245T and Pseudomonas vranovensis DSM 16006T:
taxonomic considerations.

Peña A(1), Busquets A(1), Gomila M(1), Mulet M(1), Gomila RM(2), Garcia-Valdes
E(1)(3), Reddy TBK(4), Huntemann M(4), Varghese N(4), Ivanova N(4), Chen IM(4),
Göker M(5), Woyke T(4), Klenk HP(6), Kyrpides N(4), Lalucat J(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology-Microbiology, Universitat de les Illes Balears, Palma
de, Mallorca, Spain.
(2)Serveis Cientifico-Tècnics, Universitat de les Illes Balears, Palma de
Mallorca, Spain.
(3)Institut Mediterrani d'Estudis Avançats (IMEDEA, CSIC-UIB), Palma de Mallorca,
Spain.
(4)DOE Joint Genome Institute, 2800 Mitchell Drive, Walnut Creek, CA 94598-1698, 
USA.
(5)Leibniz Institute DSMZ - German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell
Cultures, 38124 Braunschweig, Germany.
(6)School of Natural and Environmental Sciences, Newcastle University, Newcastle 
upon Tyne, NE1 7RU, UK.

Pseudomonas is the bacterial genus of Gram-negative bacteria with the highest
number of recognized species. It is divided phylogenetically into three lineages 
and at least 11 groups of species. The Pseudomonas putida group of species is one
of the most versatile and best studied. It comprises 15 species with validly
published names. As a part of the Genomic Encyclopedia of Bacteria and Archaea
(GEBA) project, we present the genome sequences of the type strains of five
species included in this group: Pseudomonas monteilii (DSM 14164T), Pseudomonas
mosselii (DSM 17497T), Pseudomonas plecoglossicida (DSM 15088T), Pseudomonas
taiwanensis (DSM 21245T) and Pseudomonas vranovensis (DSM 16006T). These strains 
represent species of environmental and also of clinical interest due to their
pathogenic properties against humans and animals. Some strains of these species
promote plant growth or act as plant pathogens. Their genome sizes are among the 
largest in the group, ranging from 5.3 to 6.3 Mbp. In addition, the genome
sequences of the type strains in the Pseudomonas taxonomy were analysed via
genome-wide taxonomic comparisons of ANIb, gANI and GGDC values among 130
Pseudomonas strains classified within the group. The results demonstrate that at 
least 36 genomic species can be delineated within the P. putida phylogenetic
group of species.

© 2019 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1099/acmi.0.000067 
PMCID: PMC7491935
PMID: 32974501 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts
of interest.

