
1. Mar Drugs. 2020 May 20;18(5). pii: E269. doi: 10.3390/md18050269.

Characterization of a New Mixture of Mono-Rhamnolipids Produced by Pseudomonas
gessardii Isolated from Edmonson Point (Antarctica).

Buonocore C(1), Tedesco P(1)(2), Vitale GA(1), Esposito FP(3), Giugliano R(4),
Monti MC(5), D'Auria MV(6), de Pascale D(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, National Research Council, 80131
Naples, Italy.
(2)Current address: TBI-INSA, 135 Avenue de Rangueil, 31400 Toulouse, France.
(3)Department of Marine Biotechnology, Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn, Villa
Comunale, 80125 Naples, Italy.
(4)Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Campania "Luigi
Vanvitelli", 80138 Naples, Italy.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, University of Salerno, 84084 Salerno, Italy.
(6)Department of Pharmacy, University of Naples "Federico II", 80131 Naples,
Italy.

Rhamnolipids (RLs) are surface-active molecules mainly produced by Pseudomonas
spp. Antarctica is one of the less explored places on Earth and bioprospecting
for novel RL producer strains represents a promising strategy for the discovery
of novel structures. In the present study, 34 cultivable bacteria isolated from
Edmonson Point Lake, Ross Sea, Antarctica were subjected to preliminary screening
for the biosurfactant activity. The positive strains were identified by 16S rRNA 
gene sequencing and the produced RLs were characterized by liquid chromatography 
coupled to high resolution mass spectrometry (LC-HRESIMS) and liquid
chromatography coupled with tandem spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), resulting in a new
mixture of 17 different RL congeners, with six previously undescribed RLs. We
explored the influence of the carbon source on the RL composition using 12
different raw materials, such as monosaccharides, polysaccharides and petroleum
industry derivatives, reporting for the first time the production of RLs using,
as sole carbon source, anthracene and benzene. Moreover, we investigated the
antimicrobial potential of the RL mixture, towards a panel of both Gram-positive 
and Gram-negative pathogens, reporting very interesting results towards Listeria 
monocytogenes with a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) value of 3.13 µg/mL. 
Finally, we report for the first time the antimicrobial activity of RLs towards
three strains of the emerging multidrug resistant Stenotrophomonas maltophilia
with MIC values of 12.5 µg/ml.

DOI: 10.3390/md18050269 
PMCID: PMC7281774
PMID: 32443698 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

