
1. Chemosphere. 2020 Mar;243:125353. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2019.125353. Epub
2019 Nov 13.

Comparing the performance of four macrophytes in bacterial assisted floating
treatment wetlands for the removal of trace metals (Fe, Mn, Ni, Pb, and Cr) from 
polluted river water.

Shahid MJ(1), Ali S(2), Shabir G(3), Siddique M(4), Rizwan M(4), Seleiman MF(5), 
Afzal M(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Sciences and Engineering, Government College
University, 38000, Faisalabad, Pakistan; Soil and Environmental Biotechnology
Division, National Institute of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, 38000,
Faisalabad, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Environmental Sciences and Engineering, Government College
University, 38000, Faisalabad, Pakistan; Department of Biological Sciences and
Technology, China Medical University (CMU), Taiwan. Electronic address:
shafaqataligill@gcuf.edu.pk.
(3)Soil and Environmental Biotechnology Division, National Institute of
Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, 38000, Faisalabad, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Environmental Sciences and Engineering, Government College
University, 38000, Faisalabad, Pakistan.
(5)Plant Production Department, College of Food and Agriculture Sciences, King
Saud University, P.O. Box 2460, Riyadh, 11451, Saudi Arabia; Department of Crop
Sciences, Faculty of Agriculture, Menoufia University, 32514, Shibin El-kom,
Egypt.
(6)Soil and Environmental Biotechnology Division, National Institute of
Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, 38000, Faisalabad, Pakistan. Electronic
address: afzal@nibge.org.

Here we compared the performance of four macrophytes namely Brachia mutica, Typha
domingensis, Phragmites australis and Leptochala fusca, in bacterially assisted
floating treatment wetlands (FTWs) for the clean-up of five trace metals (Fe, Mn,
Ni, Pb, and Cr) from polluted river water. The river water was artificially
spiked with reagent grade chemicals to increase the trace metal pollution. The
macrophytes were planted in a polystyrene sheet to prepare FTWs, which were
placed over the metal-contaminated river water. The consortium of five
rhizospheric and endophytic bacterial strains, i.e., Aeromonas salmonicida,
Pseudomonas indoloxydans, Bacillus cerus, Pseudomonas gessardii, and Rhodococcus 
sp., was inoculated support the natural remediation ability. We found a
significant reduction in the metal content by all four macrophytes and the
removal was significantly enhanced when bacterial inoculum was applied. The
maximum removal was observed in FTWs planted with P. australis and inoculated
with bacteria. In this treatment (T6) the Fe, Mn, Ni, Pb and Cr contents were
reduced to 0.53, 0.20, 0.09, 1.04 and 0.07 mg L-1 after five weeks retention
time. The bacterial inoculation sufficiently increased the plant biomass. All
macrophytes depicted potential to uptake and translocate trace metals in the
roots instead of shoots. The bacterial inoculation acclimatize the plants roots
followed by shoots and enhanced the uptake of metals by macrophytes. This study
emphasized the usefulness of macrophytes-bacteria mutualism in FTWs system for
the remediation of trace metals. The similar systems may provide practical
solutions for the remediation of trace metals of polluted river water.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2019.125353 
PMID: 31765899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no conflict of interest.

