
1. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2020 Sep 2;8:1034. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.01034.
eCollection 2020.

Directed Evolution of Pseudomonas fluorescens Lipase Variants With Improved
Thermostability Using Error-Prone PCR.

Guan L(1), Gao Y(1), Li J(1), Wang K(1), Zhang Z(1), Yan S(1), Ji N(1), Zhou
Y(1), Lu S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Food Processing, Heilongjiang Academy of Sciences, Harbin, China.

Lipases catalyze the hydrolysis of fats and oils, and have been widely used in
various industrial fields. However, bacterial lipases have a lower
thermostability in industrial processes, which was a limiting factor in their
industrial application. In this study, we obtained an improve variant of
Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase (PFL) with enhanced thermostability using
classical error-prone PCR. Wild-type PFL showed an optimal temperature and pH of 
50°C and pH 7.5, respectively. Due to the low thermostability of PFL, a library
containing over 3000 individual mutants as constructed using error-prone PCR.
Screening for thermotolerance yielded the mutants L218P and P184C/M243C with T m 
values of 62.5 and 66.0°C, which was 2.5 and 6°C higher than that of the WT,
respectively. The combination of the two mutants (P184C/M243C/L218P) resulted in 
an approximately additive effect with a T m value of 68.0°C. Although the
increase of T m was not substantial, the mutant also had dramatically increased
methanol tolerance. Structural analysis revealed that the introduction of a
disulfide bond between P184C and M243C and the substitution of Pro to reduce the 
flexibility of a loop increased the thermostability of PFL, which provides a
theoretical foundation for improving the thermostability and methanol tolerance
of lipase family I.1 to resist the harsh conditions of industrial processes.

Copyright © 2020 Guan, Gao, Li, Wang, Zhang, Yan, Ji, Zhou and Lu.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.01034 
PMCID: PMC7492553
PMID: 32984290 

