
1. Bioelectrochemistry. 2020 Jun;133:107481. doi: 10.1016/j.bioelechem.2020.107481. 
Epub 2020 Feb 11.

Coupling of electricity generation and denitrification in three-phase
single-chamber MFCs in high-salt conditions.

Zeng F(1), Wu Y(1), Bo L(1), Zhang L(2), Liu W(1), Zhu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Environmental Science and Engineering College, Dalian Maritime University, 1
Linghai Road, Dalian 116026, People's Republic of China.
(2)Environmental Science and Engineering College, Dalian Maritime University, 1
Linghai Road, Dalian 116026, People's Republic of China. Electronic address:
dlzlh2008@163.com.

High-salt conditions reduce the efficiency of electricity generation and nitrogen
removal in microbial fuel cells (MFCs). In this work, we propose a three-phase
single-chamber MFC (TP-MFC) by setting up a phase with immobilized cells in a
conventional bipolar single-chamber MFC (common MFC). Cells from Halomonas were
used as the immobilized phase, because these cells secrete the compatible solute 
ectoine and exhibit simultaneous nitrification and denitrification (SND). This
enhanced the efficiency of SND and subsequent electricity generation under
high-salt conditions. The average voltage of TP-MFC generated during the stable
period in the presence of 30 g/L NaCl was 439.3 mV, which was 55.2% higher than
that generated in common MFC. In addition, the N-removal rate of TP-MFC at 72 h
was 63.4%, which was 38.4% higher than that of common MFC. The 16S rRNA diversity
analysis showed an improved abundance of Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter, Alcaligenes,
and Halomonas in TP-MFC, indicating that the ectoine secreted by immobilized
Halomonas conferred substantial salt-tolerance on the electrogenic bacteria
growing in a high-salt environment. This paper establishes an efficient and
convenient method for improving the salt tolerance of microbial flora in MFCs,
which is of great significance for the application of MFCs in high-strength
wastewater treatment.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioelechem.2020.107481 
PMID: 32088575 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

