
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Jan;70(1):364-372. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003763.

Pseudomonas phragmitis sp. nov., isolated from petroleum polluted river sediment.

Li J(1), Wang LH(1), Xiang FG(1), Ding WL(1), Xi LJ(1), Wang MQ(2)(1), Xiao
ZJ(1), Liu JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Heavy Oil Processing & Center for Bioengineering and
Biotechnology, College of Chemical Engineering, China University of Petroleum
(East China), Qingdao 266580, PR China.
(2)Shandong Peanut Research Institute, Qingdao 266100, PR China.

A Gram-stain-negative, rod-shaped bacterium, motile by means of a single polar
flagellum, designated S-6-2T, was isolated from petroleum polluted river sediment
in Huangdao, Shandong Province, PR China. The 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis
revealed that S-6-2T represented a member of the genus Pseudomonas, sharing the
highest sequence similarities with Pseudomonas parafulva (97.5 %) and Pseudomonas
fulva (97.5 %). Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene, concatenated 16S
rRNA, gyrB, rpoB and rpoD genes and genome core-genes indicated that S-6-2T was
affiliated with the members of the Pseudomonas pertucinogena group. The average
nucleotide identity (ANI) and genome-to-genome distance between the whole genome 
sequences of S-6-2T and closely related species of the genus Pseudomonas within
the P. pertucinogena group were less than 77.94 % and 20.5 %, respectively.
Differences in phenotypic characteristics were also found between S-6-2T and the 
closely related species. The major cellular fatty acids (>10 %) were summed
feature 8 (C18 : 1ω7c/ C18  : 1ω6c), C16 : 0, C17 : 0cyclo and C12 : 0. The
predominant respiratory quinone was ubiquinone 9. The major polar lipids were
diphosphatidylglycerol (DPG), phosphatidylglycerol (PG), phosphatidylethanolamine
(PE), one unidentified lipid (L1), two unidentified phospholipids (PL1 and PL2)
and an aminophospholipid (APL). The DNA G+C content of the genome of S-6-2T was
60.1 mol%. On the basis of the evidence from the polyphasic taxonomic study,
strain S-6-2T can be classified as representative of a novel species of the genus
Pseudomonas, for which the name Pseudomonas phragmitis sp. nov. is proposed. The 
type strain is S-6-2T (=CGMCC 1.15798T=KCTC 52539T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003763 
PMID: 31661054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

