
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Sep 2;11:2114. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.02114. eCollection
2020.

Pseudomonas Species Diversity Along the Danube River Assessed by rpoD Gene
Sequence and MALDI-TOF MS Analyses of Cultivated Strains.

Mulet M(1), Montaner M(1), Román D(1), Gomila M(1), Kittinger C(2), Zarfel G(2), 
Lalucat J(1)(3), García-Valdés E(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiologia, Departament de Biologia, Edifici Guillem Colom, Universitat de 
les Illes Balears, Palma de Mallorca, Spain.
(2)Diagnostic and Research Institute of Hygiene, Microbiology and Environmental
Medicine, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(3)Institut Mediterrani d'Estudis Avançats (IMEDEA, CSIC-UIB), Palma de Mallorca,
Spain.

A collection of 611 Pseudomonas isolated from 14 sampling sites along the Danube 
River were identified previously by MALDI-TOF MS with the VITEK MS system and
were grouped in 53 clusters by their main protein profiles. The strains were
identified in the present study at the phylospecies level by rpoD gene
sequencing. Partial sequences of the rpoD gene of 190 isolates representatives of
all clusters were analyzed. Strains in the same MALDI-TOF cluster were grouped in
the same phylospecies when they shared a minimum 95% similarity in their rpoD
sequences. The sequenced strains were assigned to 34 known species (108 strains) 
and to 32 possible new species (82 strains). The 611 strains were identified at
the phylospecies level combining both methods. Most strains were assigned to
phylospecies in the Pseudomonas putida phylogenetic group of species. Special
attention was given to 14 multidrug resistant strains that could not be assigned 
to any known Pseudomonas species and were considered environmental reservoir of
antibiotic resistance genes. Coverage indices and rarefaction curves demonstrated
that at least 50% of the Pseudomonas species in the Danube River able to grow in 
the isolation conditions have been identified at the species level. Main
objectives were the confirmation of the correlation between the protein profile
clusters detected by MALDI-TOF MS and the phylogeny of Pseudomonas strains based 
on the rpoD gene sequence, the assessment of the higher species discriminative
power of the rpoD gene sequence, as well as the estimation of the high diversity 
of Pseudomonas ssp. along the Danube river. This study highlights the Pseudomonas
species diversity in freshwater ecosystems and the usefulness of the combination 
of MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry for the dereplication of large sets of strains and
the rpoD gene sequences for rapid and accurate identifications at the species
level.

Copyright © 2020 Mulet, Montaner, Román, Gomila, Kittinger, Zarfel, Lalucat and
García-Valdés.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.02114 
PMCID: PMC7492575
PMID: 32983072 

