
1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2020 Sep 22;117(38):23802-23806. doi:
10.1073/pnas.2006109117. Epub 2020 Aug 31.

Helper bacteria halt and disarm mushroom pathogens by linearizing structurally
diverse cyclolipopeptides.

Hermenau R(1), Kugel S(1), Komor AJ(1), Hertweck C(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomolecular Chemistry, Leibniz Institute for Natural Product
Research und Infection Biology (HKI), 07745 Jena, Germany.
(2)Department of Biomolecular Chemistry, Leibniz Institute for Natural Product
Research und Infection Biology (HKI), 07745 Jena, Germany;
christian.hertweck@leibniz-hki.de.
(3)Faculty of Biological Sciences, Friedrich Schiller University Jena, 07743
Jena, Germany.

The bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas tolaasii severely damages white button
mushrooms by secretion of the pore-forming toxin tolaasin, the main virulence
factor of brown blotch disease. Yet, fungus-associated helper bacteria of the
genus Mycetocola (Mycetocola tolaasinivorans and Mycetocola lacteus) may protect 
their host by an unknown detoxification mechanism. By a combination of metabolic 
profiling, imaging mass spectrometry, structure elucidation, and bioassays, we
found that the helper bacteria inactivate tolaasin by linearizing the
lipocyclopeptide. Furthermore, we found that Mycetocola spp. impair the
dissemination of the pathogen by cleavage of the lactone ring of pseudodesmin.
The role of pseudodesmin as a major swarming factor was corroborated by
identification and inactivation of the corresponding biosynthetic gene cluster.
Activity-guided fractionation of the Mycetocola proteome, matrix-assisted laser
desorption/ionization (MALDI) analyses, and heterologous enzyme production
identified the lactonase responsible for toxin cleavage. We revealed an
antivirulence strategy in the context of a tripartite interaction that has high
ecological and agricultural relevance.

Copyright Â© 2020 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2006109117 
PMID: 32868430 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.

