
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jul 28;8(8). pii: E1144. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8081144.

Contribution of Hydrogen Cyanide to the Antagonistic Activity of Pseudomonas
Strains Against Phytophthora infestans.

Anand A(1), Chinchilla D(1), Tan C(1), Mène-Saffrané L(1), L'Haridon F(1),
Weisskopf L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Fribourg, 1700 Fribourg, Switzerland.

Plants face many biotic and abiotic challenges in nature; one of them is attack
by disease-causing microbes. Phytophthora infestans, the causal agent of late
blight is one of the most prominent pathogens of the potato responsible for
multi-billion-dollar losses every year. We have previously reported that
potato-associated Pseudomonas strains inhibited P. infestans at various
developmental stages. A comparative genomics approach identified several factors 
putatively involved in this anti-oomycete activity, among which was the
production of hydrogen cyanide (HCN). Here, we report the relative contribution
of HCN emission to the overall anti-Phytophthora activity of two cyanogenic
Pseudomonas strains, P. putida R32 and P. chlororaphis R47. To quantify this
contribution, we generated HCN-negative mutants (Δhcn) and compared their
activities to those of their respective wild types in different experiments
assessing P. infestans mycelial growth, zoospore germination, and infection of
potato leaf disks. Using in vitro experiments allowing only volatile-mediated
interactions, we observed that HCN accounted for most of the mycelial growth
inhibition (57% in R47 and 80% in R32). However, when allowing both volatile and 
diffusible compound-mediated interactions, HCN only accounted for 1% (R47) and
18% (R32) of mycelial growth inhibition. Likewise, both mutants inhibited
zoospore germination in a similar way as their respective wild types. More
importantly, leaf disk experiments showed that both wild-type and Δhcn strains of
R47 and R32 were able to limit P. infestans infection to a similar extent. Our
results suggest that while HCN is a major contributor to the in vitro
volatile-mediated restriction of P. infestans mycelial growth, it does not play a
major role in the inhibition of other disease-related features such as zoospore
germination or infection of plant tissues.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8081144 
PMCID: PMC7464445
PMID: 32731625 

