
1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Aug 31;754:142083. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.142083. 
[Epub ahead of print]

Mechanism insights into polyhydroxyalkanoate-regulated denitrification from the
perspective of pericytoplasmic nitrate reductase expression.

Wu B(1), Zhou M(1), Song L(2), Xu Q(1), Dai X(3), Chai X(4).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, 1239 Siping Road,
Shanghai 200092, China.
(2)Environmental Microbiology and Ecology Research Center, Chongqing Institute of
Green and Intelligent Technology, Chinese Academy of Science (CAS), 266 Fangzheng
Avenue, Chongqing 400714, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, 1239 Siping Road,
Shanghai 200092, China; Shanghai Institute of Pollution Control and Ecological
Security, Shanghai 200092, China. Electronic address: daixiaohu@tongji.edu.cn.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Pollution Control and Resource Reuse, College of
Environmental Science and Engineering, Tongji University, 1239 Siping Road,
Shanghai 200092, China; Shanghai Institute of Pollution Control and Ecological
Security, Shanghai 200092, China. Electronic address: xlchai@tongji.edu.cn.

For enhanced biological nutrient removal (BNR) process, the polyhydroxyalkanoate 
(PHA) can be used as an eco-friendly internal as well as external substrate for
regulating the growth of heterotrophic denitrifiers and promoting the
denitrification process for deep nitrogen removal from wastewater. However, the
exact mechanisms by which PHA impacts bacterial metabolism and affects the
electron transfer of denitrification remain unknown. In this study, the in-depth 
mechanism investigation for PHA-mediated denitrification based on the jointly
applied transcriptomic, proteomic and Western Blotting techniques was performed
on a model denitrifier, Pseudomonas stutzeri. Results showed that PHA
dramatically fostered the growth of Pseudomonas stutzeri, resulting in improved
nitrate removal efficiency from 32.8% to 45.8%. Comparison of protein expression 
profiles indicated that PHA promoted the expression of enzyme NapB and NapA by
approximately 10.34 and 20.01 times, respectively, which were both in charge of
reduction from nitrate to nitrite. Based on transcriptional sequencing and Tandem
Mass Tags, the correlation results also showed that differential proteins and
genes with the same expression trend were positively correlated (R2 = 0.427,
p-value<0.033). Western Blotting approach was further developed to confirm the
up-regulated expression of target protein with the higher proportion of PHA in
carbon source of the medium, which proved the reliability of proteomics results. 
All the findings presented here are believed to deepen the understanding of
microbial mechanism about PHA-enhanced denitrification from the novel perspective
of associated electron-transfer enzymatic proteins.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.142083 
PMID: 32920393 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

