
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Feb;70(2):944-950. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003852.

Pseudomonas rhizoryzae sp. nov., isolated from rice.

Wang X(1), He SW(2)(1), Guo HB(1), Thin KK(1), Gao JS(3)(1), Wang Y(2)(1), Zhang 
XX(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Microbial Resources Collection and Preservation, Ministry of
Agriculture, Institute of Agricultural Resources and Regional Planning, Chinese
Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 100081, PR China.
(2)College of Life Science, The Yangtze university, Jingzhou, 434025, PR China.
(3)Qiyang Agro-ecosystem of National Field Experimental Station, Institute of
Agricultural Resources and Regional, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Qiyang 426182, PR China.

Two yellow-pigmented, Gram-stain-negative and rod-shaped bacterial strains,
designated as RY24T and ZYY160, were isolated from rice. Results of phylogenetic 
analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that strains RY24T and ZYY160
belonged to the genus Pseudomonas, and the 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity was 
100 % The DNA homology between the two strains was 99.7 %. The 16S rRNA and rpoD 
gene sequences of the two strains showed highest similarity values to Pseudomonas
oryzihabitans CGMCC 1.3392T and Pseudomonas psychrotolerans DSM 15758T (sharing
99.31 and 94.34 %, respectively). The major fatty acids of two strains were
identified as summed feature 8 (C18:1ω7c and/or C18:1ω6c), C16;0 and summed
feature 3 (C16:1ω7c and/or C16:1ω6c), and the major respiratory quinone was
identified as ubiquinone Q-9, which are typical chemotaxonomic features of
members of the genus Pseudomonas. The genomic DNA G+C contents of strains RY24T
and ZYY160 were determined to be 64.25 and 64.21 mol%, respectively. The DNA-DNA 
relatedness and average nucleotide identity values between the two strains and
their closely related type strains were below 36 and 90 %, which supported that
RY24T and ZYY160 represent a novel species in the genus Pseudomonas. Phylogenetic
and chemotaxonomic evidence, together with phenotypic characteristics, showed
that the two isolates constitute a novel species of the genus Pseudomonas. The
type strain is RY24T (JCM 33201T=ACCC 61555T), for which the name Pseudomonas
rhizoryzae sp. nov. is proposed.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003852 
PMID: 31751195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

