
1. Environ Microbiol Rep. 2020 Sep 17. doi: 10.1111/1758-2229.12887. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Plant growth-stimulating rhizobacteria capable of producing L-amino acids.

Pizarro-Tobias P(1), Ramos JL(2), Duque E(2), Roca A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bio-Iliberis R&D, Capileira 7, Polígono Juncaril, Peligros, Granada, Spain.
(2)CSIC, EEZ, Profesor Albareda 1, Granada, 18008, Spain.

Pseudomonas putida BIRD-1 is a microorganism that inhabits the rhizosphere and
solubilizes phosphate and iron and produces indolacetic acid [Roca, A.,
Pizarro-Tobías, P., Udaondo, Z., Fernández, M., Matilla, M.A., Molina-Henares,
M.A., et al. (2013) Analysis of plant growth-promoting properties encoded by the 
genome of the rhizobacterium Pseudomonas putida BIRD-1. Environ Microbiol 15:
780-794]. In this study, we generated mutant strains that are capable of
producing the plant growth stimulating compounds L-tryptophan and
L-phenylalanine. We prepared clones that overproduce L-tryptophan by first
mutagenizing P. putida BIRD-1, then by selecting for clones in the presence of
inhibitory concentrations of 5-fluoro-D,L-tryptophan. The production of this
aromatic amino acid was confirmed by chemical analysis and cross-feeding
experiments with auxotrophs. One of the mutants, named P. putida BIRD-1-12, was
mutagenized again to isolate clones that are also able to grow in the presence of
inhibitory concentrations of p-fluoro-D,L-phenylalanine. One of these resulting
clones was then isolated and named BIRD-1-12F. Our analysis revealed that the
strains that either overproduce L-tryptophan, or L-tryptophan and
L-phenylalanine, excel at promoting the growth of a number of plant crops of
agricultural interest.

© 2020 Society for Applied Microbiology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1758-2229.12887 
PMID: 32940018 

