
1. AIMS Microbiol. 2020 Mar 16;6(1):75-91. doi: 10.3934/microbiol.2020005.
eCollection 2020.

An in silico analysis of acquired antimicrobial resistance genes in Aeromonas
plasmids.

Nwaiwu O(1), Aduba CC(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biosciences, University of Nottingham, Sutton Bonington Campus,
United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Science Laboratory Technology, University of Nigeria, Nsukka,
Nigeria.

Sequences of 105 Aeromonas species plasmids were probed for acquired
anti-microbial resistance (AMR) genes using a bioinformatics approach. The
plasmids showed no positive linear correlation between size and GC content and up
to 55 acquired AMR genes were found in 39 (37%) plasmids after in silico
screening for resistance against 15 antibiotic drug classes. Overall, potential
multiple antibiotic resistance (p-MAR) index ranged from 0.07 to 0.53. Up to 18
plasmids were predicted to mediate multiple drug resistance (MDR). Plasmids
pS121-1a (A. salmonicida), pWCX23_1 (A. hydrophila) and pASP-a58 (A. veronii)
harboured 18, 15 and 14 AMR genes respectively. The five most occurring drug
classes for which AMR genes were detected were aminoglycosides (27%), followed by
beta-lactams (17%), sulphonamides (13%), fluoroquinolones (13%), and phenicols
(10%). The most prevalent genes were a sulphonamide resistant gene Sul1, the gene
aac (6')-Ib-cr (aminoglycoside 6'-N-acetyl transferase type Ib-cr) resistant to
aminoglycosides and the blaKPC-2 gene, which encodes carbapenemase-production.
Plasmid acquisition of AMR genes was mainly inter-genus rather than intra-genus. 
Eighteen plasmids showed template or host genes acquired from Pseudomonas
monteilii, Salmonella enterica or Escherichia coli. The most occurring
antimicrobial resistance determinants (ARDs) were beta-lactamase, followed by
aminoglycosides acetyl-transferases, and then efflux pumps. Screening of new
isolates in vitro and in vivo is required to ascertain the level of phenotypic
expression of colistin and other acquired AMR genes detected.

Â© 2020 the Author(s), licensee AIMS Press.

DOI: 10.3934/microbiol.2020005 
PMCID: PMC7099201
PMID: 32226916 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: Authors declare no conflict
of interest.

