
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Sep;70(9):5012-5018. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004373.

Pseudomonas viciae sp. nov., isolated from rhizosphere of broad bean.

Zhao H(1), Ma Y(1), Wu X(2), Zhang L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Pathology and Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
Key Laboratory of Pest Monitoring and Green Management, College of Plant
Protection China Agricultural University, Beijing, PR China.
(2)College of Agriculture, Guangxi University, Nanning, PR China.

A Gram-stain-negative aerobic bacterium, strain 11K1T, was isolated from a
rhizosphere soil of broad bean collected from Qujing, Yunnan, PR China and
characterized by using polyphasic taxonomy. The bacterial cells of strain 11K1T
were rod-shaped, motile by two polar flagella and positive for oxidase and
catalase. Results of phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences
revealed that the strain had the highest similarities to Pseudomonas
thivervalensis DSM 13194T (99.52 %), Pseudomonas lini CFBP 5737T (99.45 %),
Pseudomonas chlororaphis subsp. chlororaphis NBRC 3904T (99.31 %), Pseudomonas
kilonensis DSM 13647T (99.25 %) and Pseudomonas brassicacearum JCM11938T
(99.24 %). Multilocus sequence analysis using the 16S rRNA, gyrB, rpoB and rpoD
gene sequences demonstrated that strain 11K1T was a member of the Pseudomonas
corrugata subgroup within the Pseudomonas fluorescens lineage, but was distant
from all closely related species. The average nucleotide identity and in silico
DNA-DNA hybridization values were lower than recommended thresholds of 95 and
70 %, respectively, for species delineation. The major isoprenoid quinone of
strain 11K1T was ubiquinone (Q-9) and the major cellular fatty acids were
C16 : 0, summed feature 3 (C16 : 1 ω7c/C16 : 1 ω6c), summed feature 8
(C18 : 1 ω7c/C18 : 1 ω6c) and C17 : 0 cyclo. The major polar lipids were
phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, diphosphatidylglycerol,
aminophospholipid and two unidentified lipids. Based on the results of phenotypic
characterization, phylogenetic analysis and genome comparison, strain 11K1T
represents a novel species of the genus Pseudomonas, for which the name
Pseudomonas viciae sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is 11K1T (=GDMCC
1.1743T=KACC 21650T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004373 
PMID: 32776868 

