
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Sep 5. pii: S0141-8130(20)34355-5. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.09.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Stabilization of ω-transaminase from Pseudomonas fluorescens by immobilization
techniques.

Velasco-Lozano S(1), Jackson E(2), Ripoll M(2), López-Gallego F(3), Betancor
L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Catálisis Heterogénea en Síntesis Orgánicas Selectivas, Instituto de Síntesis 
Química y Catálisis Homogénea (ISQCH-CSIC), University of Zaragoza, Pedro
Cerbuna, 12, 50009 Zaragoza, Spain; Heterogeneous Biocatalysis Laboratory,
CICbiomaGUNE, Paseo de Miramón, 182, 20014 Donostia-San Sebastián, Spain.
Electronic address: svelasco@cicbiomagune.es.
(2)Laboratorio de Biotecnología, Universidad ORT Uruguay, Cuareim 1441, 11100
Montevideo, Uruguay.
(3)Catálisis Heterogénea en Síntesis Orgánicas Selectivas, Instituto de Síntesis 
Química y Catálisis Homogénea (ISQCH-CSIC), University of Zaragoza, Pedro
Cerbuna, 12, 50009 Zaragoza, Spain; Heterogeneous Biocatalysis Laboratory,
CICbiomaGUNE, Paseo de Miramón, 182, 20014 Donostia-San Sebastián, Spain;
IKERBASQUE, Basque Foundation for Science, Maria Diaz de Haro 3, 48013 Bilbao,
Spain.
(4)Laboratorio de Biotecnología, Universidad ORT Uruguay, Cuareim 1441, 11100
Montevideo, Uruguay. Electronic address: betancor@ort.edu.uy.

Transaminases are a class of enzymes with promising applications for the
preparation and resolution of a vast diversity of valued amines. Their poor
operational stability has fueled many investigations on its stabilization due to 
their biotechnological relevance. In this work, we screened the stabilization of 
the tetrameric ω-transaminase from Pseudomonas fluorescence (PfωTA) through both 
carrier-bound and carrier-free immobilization techniques. The best heterogeneous 
biocatalyst was the PfωTA immobilized as cross-linked enzyme aggregates
(PfωTA-CLEA), prepared by enzyme precipitation with 90% acetone or ethanol, in
presence of BSA (100 mg/mL) and employing glutaraldehyde (100 mM) as
cross-linker. Studies on different conditions for PfωTA-CLEA preparation yielded 
a biocatalyst that exhibited 31 and 4.6 times enhanced thermal stability at 60 °C
and 70 °C, respectively, compared to its soluble counterpart. The PfωTA-CLEA was 
successfully used in the bioamination of 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde to
4-hydroxybenzylamine. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report
describing a transaminase cross-linked enzyme aggregate as immobilization
strategy to generate a biocatalyst with outstanding thermostability.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.09.003 
PMID: 32898544 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors
declare no competing interests regarding the following manuscript.

