
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Aug 26;11:2084. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.02084. eCollection 
2020.

Fic Proteins Inhibit the Activity of Topoisomerase IV by AMPylation in Diverse
Bacteria.

Lu CH(1)(2)(3), McCloskey A(3), Chen FR(2), Nakayasu ES(4), Zhang LQ(2), Luo
ZQ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Yunnan Academy of Tobacco Agriculture Science, Kunming, China.
(2)Department of Plant Pathology and MOA Key Lab of Pest Monitoring and Green
Management, College of Plant Protection, China Agricultural University, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN,
United States.
(4)Biological Science Division, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, 
WA, United States.

The Fic (filamentation induced by cyclic AMP) domain is a widely distributed
motif with a conserved sequence of HPFx[D/E]GN[G/K]R, some of which regulate
cellular activity by catalyzing the transfer of the AMP moiety from ATP to
protein substrates. Some Fic proteins, including Fic-1 from the soil bacterium
Pseudomonas fluorescens strain 2P24, have been shown to inhibit bacterial DNA
replication by AMPylating the subunit B of DNA gyrase (GyrB), but the biochemical
activity and cellular target of most Fic proteins remain unknown. Here, we report
that Fic-2, which is another Fic protein from strain 2P24 and Fic-1 AMPylate the 
topoisomerase IV ParE at Tyr109. We also examined Fic proteins from several
phylogenetically diverse bacteria and found that those from Yersinia
pseudotuberculosis and Staphylococcus aureus AMPylate ParE and GrlB, the
counterpart of ParE in Gram-positive bacteria, respectively. Modification by
Fic-1 of P. fluorescens and FicY of Y. pseudotuberculosis inhibits the relaxation
activity of topoisomerase IV. Consistent with the inhibition of ParE activity,
ectopic expression of these Fic proteins causes cell filamentation akin to the
canonical par phenotype in which nucleoids are assembled in the center of
elongated cells, a process accompanied by the induction of the SOS response. Our 
results establish that Fic proteins from diverse bacterial species regulate
chromosome division and cell separation in bacteria by targeting ParE.

Copyright Â© 2020 Lu, McCloskey, Chen, Nakayasu, Zhang and Luo.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.02084 
PMCID: PMC7479194
PMID: 32983060 

