
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Feb;70(2):935-943. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003851.

Pseudomonas saxonica sp. nov., isolated from raw milk and skimmed milk
concentrate.

Hofmann K(1), Huptas C(1), Doll EV(1), Scherer S(1), Wenning M(2)(1).

Author information: 
(1)Chair of Microbial Ecology, ZIEL - Institute for Food & Health, Technische
Universität München, Weihenstephaner Berg 3, 85354 Freising, Germany.
(2)Bavarian Health and Food Safety Authority, Veterinärstraße 2, 85764
Oberschleißheim, Germany.

A polyphasic approach was used to investigate the taxonomic status of two
bacterial strains, WS 5072T and WS 5092, isolated from skimmed milk concentrate
and raw cow's milk. The 16S rRNA and rpoD gene sequences affiliated the strains
to the same, hitherto unknown, Pseudomonas species. Further examinations of the
draft genomes based on multilocus sequence analysis and average nucleotide
identity confirmed the presence of a novel Pseudomonas species. It was most
closely related to Pseudomonas fragi DSM 3456T with 86.3 % ANIm. The DNA G+C
content of strain WS 5072T was 56.3 mol%. Cells were aerobic, Gram-negative,
catalase and oxidase positive, rod-shaped and motile. Growth occurred at 4-34 °C,
pH 5.5-8.0 and with salt concentrations of up to 7 %. The major cellular polar
lipids were phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, and
diphosphatidylglycerol. The dominating quinone was Q-9 with 94 %, with noticeable
amounts of Q-8 (5 %) and traces of Q-7 and Q-10. Fatty acid profiles showed a
composition common for Pseudomonas with the major component C16 : 0. Based on
these results, the novel species Pseudomonas saxonica sp. nov. is proposed, with 
the type strain WS 5072T (=DSM 108989T=LMG 31234T) and the additional strain WS
5092 (=DSM 108990=LMG 31235).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003851 
PMID: 31730030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

