
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 May 25;11:989. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00989. eCollection
2020.

Six Multiplex TaqManTM-qPCR Assays for Quantitative Diagnostics of Pseudomonas
Species Causative of Bacterial Blotch Diseases of Mushrooms.

Taparia T(1)(2), Krijger M(1), Hodgetts J(3), Hendriks M(1), Elphinstone JG(3),
van der Wolf J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biointeractions and Plant Health, Wageningen University and Research,
Wageningen, Netherlands.
(2)Department of Microbial Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology, Wageningen,
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Plant Protection, Fera Science Limited, York, United Kingdom.

Bacterial blotch is a group of economically important diseases of the common
button mushroom (Agaricus bisporus). Once the pathogens are introduced to a farm,
mesophilic growing conditions (that are optimum for mushroom production) result
in severe and widespread secondary infections. Efficient, timely and quantitative
detection of the pathogens is hence critical for the design of localized control 
strategies and prediction of disease risk. This study describes the development
of real-time TaqManTM assays that allow molecular diagnosis of three currently
prevalent bacterial blotch pathogens: "Pseudomonas gingeri," Pseudomonas tolaasii
and (as yet uncharacterized) Pseudomonas strains (belonging to Pseudomonas
salomonii and Pseudomonas edaphica). For each pathogen, assays targeting specific
DNA markers on two different loci, were developed for primary detection and
secondary verification. All six developed assays showed high diagnostic
specificity and sensitivity when tested against a panel of 63 Pseudomonas strains
and 40 other plant pathogenic bacteria. The assays demonstrated good analytical
performance indicated by linearity across calibration curve (>0.95),
amplification efficiency (>90%) and magnitude of amplification signal (>2.1). The
limits of detection were optimized for efficient quantification in bacterial
cultures, symptomatic tissue, infected casing soil and water samples from
mushroom farms. Each target assay was multiplexed with two additional assays.
Xanthomonas campestris was detected as an extraction control, to account for loss
of DNA during sample processing. And the total Pseudomonas population was
detected, to quantify the proportion of pathogenic to beneficial Pseudomonas in
the soil. This ratio is speculated to be an indicator for blotch outbreaks. The
multiplexed assays were successfully validated and applied by routine testing of 
diseased mushrooms, peat sources, casing soils, and water from commercial
production units.

Copyright Â© 2020 Taparia, Krijger, Hodgetts, Hendriks, Elphinstone and van der
Wolf.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00989 
PMCID: PMC7261844
PMID: 32523566 

