
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Jun;143:104121. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104121. Epub 2020
Mar 10.

Antibiotic susceptibility of cultivable aerobic microbiota from the oral cavity
of Echis carinatus from Odisha (India).

Padhi L(1), Panda SK(1), Mohapatra PP(2), Sahoo G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, North Orissa University, Baripada, 757003, Odisha,
India.
(2)Central Zone Regional Centre, Zoological Survey of India, Jabalpur, Madhya
Pradesh, India.
(3)Department of Zoology, Utkal University, Bhubaneswar, 751004, Odisha, India.
Electronic address: gunanidhi.nou@gmail.com.

During a snake bite, the microbes may get transferred to the bite site and may
cause secondary infection along with envenomation. The knowledge on the oral
bacterial flora of snakes constitutes information important for snake bite
management. The inadequately studied oral microflora of snakes differ
geographically, temporally and among the members of the same species. The
objective of this study is to determine the pattern of oral bacterial flora of
Saw-scaled viper (Echis carinatus) and their susceptibility to antibiotics. Oral 
swabs were collected from nine healthy Saw-scaled vipers, subjected to
microbiological, biochemical and molecular characterization. Additionally, these 
isolates were subjected to antimicrobial susceptibility testing using
ICOSA-20-Plus and ICOSA-20-Minus. A wide range of pathogenic bacteria such as
Salmonella arizonae, Pseudomonas stutzeri, Proteus penneri, Alcaligenes faecalis;
Citrobacter diversus, C. freundii, Enterococcus faecalis, Bacillus anthracis,
Staphylococcus sciuri and Achromobacter xylosoxidans were isolated as new
additions to the floral diversity of saw scale viper. Most of the isolates were
sensitive towards amikacin, azithromycin, imipenem, ciprofloxacin, gentamicin,
ofloxacin, sparfloxacin, tobramycin, levofloxacin, kanamycin, tetracycline, and
chloramphenicol while resistant to amoxyclav, cephalothin, cefpodoxime,
Co-Trimoxazole, oxacillin and penicillin. The present study revealed that the
bacterial flora of the oral cavity of Saw-scaled viper is resistant to many
common antibiotics, which are often used for the treatment of snake-bite victims.

Copyright Â© 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104121 
PMID: 32169497 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
have declared that no competing interests exist.

