
1. Genome Biol Evol. 2019 Dec 1;11(12):3529-3533. doi: 10.1093/gbe/evz267.

A Rare Thioquinolobactin Siderophore Present in a Bioactive Pseudomonas sp.
DTU12.1.

Sazinas P(1), Hansen ML(1), Aune MI(1), Fischer MH(1), Jelsbak L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Biomedicine, Technical University of Denmark, 
Kongens Lyngby, Denmark.

Many of the soil-dwelling Pseudomonas species are known to produce secondary
metabolite compounds, which can have antagonistic activity against other
microorganisms, including important plant pathogens. It is thus of importance to 
isolate new strains of Pseudomonas and discover novel or rare gene clusters
encoding bioactive products. In an effort to accomplish this, we have isolated a 
bioactive Pseudomonas strain DTU12.1 from leaf-covered soil in Denmark. Following
genome sequencing with Illumina and Oxford Nanopore technologies, we generated a 
complete genome sequence with the length of 5,943,629 base pairs. The DTU12.1
strain contained a complete gene cluster for a rare thioquinolobactin
siderophore, which was previously described as possessing bioactivity against
oomycetes and several fungal species. We placed the DTU12.1 strain within
Pseudomonas gessardii subgroup of fluorescent pseudomonads, where it formed a
distinct clade with other Pseudomonas strains, most of which also contained a
complete thioquinolobactin gene cluster. Only two other Pseudomonas strains were 
found to contain the gene cluster, though they were present in a different
phylogenetic clade and were missing a transcriptional regulator of the whole
cluster. We show that having the complete genome sequence and establishing
phylogenetic relationships with other strains can enable us to start evaluating
the distribution and evolutionary origins of secondary metabolite clusters.

Â© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/gbe/evz267 
PMCID: PMC6934138
PMID: 31800028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

