
1. ACS Omega. 2020 Apr 1;5(14):7861-7876. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.9b04084. eCollection
2020 Apr 14.

Destruction of Cell Topography, Morphology, Membrane, Inhibition of Respiration, 
Biofilm Formation, and Bioactive Molecule Production by Nanoparticles of Ag, ZnO,
CuO, TiO2, and Al2O3 toward Beneficial Soil Bacteria.

Ahmed B(1), Ameen F(2), Rizvi A(1), Ali K(1), Sonbol H(3), Zaidi A(1), Khan
MS(1), Musarrat J(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Microbiology, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh
202002, India.
(2)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Science, King Saud
University, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Biology, College of Science, Princess Nourah bint Abdulrahman
University, Riyadh 11671, Saudi Arabia.
(4)School of Biosciences and Biotechnology, Baba Ghulam Shah Badshah University, 
Rajouri, Jammu and Kashmir 185234, India.

The unregulated discharge of nanoparticles (NPs) from various nanotechnology
industries into the environment is expected to alter the composition and
physiological functions of soil microbiota. Considering this knowledge gap, the
impact of five NPs (Ag, ZnO, CuO, Al2O3, and TiO2) differing in size and
morphology on growth behavior and physiological activity of Azotobacter
chroococcum, Bacillus thuringiensis, Pseudomonas mosselii, and Sinorhizobium
meliloti were investigated. Various biochemical and microscopic approaches were
adopted. Interestingly, all bacterial strains were found sensitive to Ag-NPs and 
ZnO-NPs but showed tolerance toward CuO, Al2O3, and TiO2-NPs. The loss of
cellular respiration due to NPs was coupled with a reduction in population size. 
ZnO-NPs at 387.5 μg mL-1 had a maximum inhibitory impact on A. chroococcum and
reduced its population by 72%. Under Ag-NP stress, the reduction in IAA secretion
by bacterial strains followed the order S. meliloti (74%) > P. mosselii (63%) >
A. chroococcum (49%). The surface of bacterial cells had small- or large-sized
aggregates of NPs. Also, numerous gaps, pits, fragmented, and disorganized cell
envelopes were visible. Additionally, a treated cell surface appeared corrugated 
with depressions and alteration in cell length and a strong heterogeneity was
noticed under atomic force microscopy (AFM). For instance, NPs induced cell
roughness for P. mosselii followed the order 12.6 nm (control) > 58 nm (Ag-NPs) >
41 nm (ZnO-NPs). TEM analysis showed aberrant morphology, cracking, and
disruption of the cell envelope with extracellular electron-dense materials.
Increased permeability of the inner cell membrane caused cell death and lowered
EPS production. Ag-NPs and ZnO-NPs also disrupted the surface adhering ability of
bacteria, which varied with time and concentration of NPs. Conclusively, a
plausible mechanism of NP toxicity to bacteria has been proposed to understand
the mechanistic basis of ecological interaction between NPs and resourceful
bacteria. These results also emphasize to develop strategies for the safe
disposal of NPs.

Copyright © 2020 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.9b04084 
PMCID: PMC7160826
PMID: 32309695 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interest.

