
1. Access Microbiol. 2020 Feb 10;2(3):acmi000095. doi: 10.1099/acmi.0.000095.
eCollection 2020.

Principal component analysis exploring the association between antibiotic
resistance and heavy metal tolerance of plasmid-bearing sewage wastewater
bacteria of clinical relevance.

Mandal M(1), Das SN(2), Mandal S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, MGM Medical College and LSK Hospital,
Kishanganj-855107, India.
(2)Department of Zoology, University of Gour Banga, Malda-732103, India.

This paper unravels the occurrence of plasmid-mediated antibiotic resistance in
association with tolerance to heavy metals among clinically relevant bacteria
isolated from sewage wastewater. The bacteria isolated were identified following 
conventional phenotypic and/or molecular methods, and were subjected to
multiple-antibiotic resistance (MAR) profiling. The isolates were tested against 
the heavy metals Hg2+, Cd2+, Cr2+ and Cu2+. SDS-PAGE and agarose gel
electrophoretic analyses were performed, respectively, for the characterization
of heavy metal stress protein and R-plasmid among the isolated bacteria.
Principal component analysis was applied in determining bacterial resistance to
antibiotics and heavy metals. Both lactose-fermenting ( Escherichia coli ) and
non-fermenting ( Acinetobacter baumannii and Pseudomonas putida ) Gram-negative
bacterial strains were procured, and showed MAR phenotypes with respect to three 
or more antibiotics, along with resistance to the heavy metals Hg2+, Cd2+, Cr2+
and Cu2+. The Gram-positive bacteria, Enterococcus faecalis , isolated had
'ampicillin-kanamycin-nalidixic acid' resistance. The bacterial isolates had MAR 
indices of 0.3-0.9, indicating their ( E. faecalis , E. coli , A. baumannii and
P. putida ) origin from niches with high antibiotic pollution and human faecal
contamination. The Gram-negative bacteria isolated contained a single plasmid
(≈54 kb) conferring multiple antibiotic resistance, which was linked to heavy
metal tolerance; the SDS-PAGE analysis demonstrated the expression of heavy metal
stress proteins (≈59 and ≈10 kDa) in wastewater bacteria with a Cd2+ stressor.
The study results grant an insight into the co-occurrence of antibiotic
resistance and heavy metal tolerance among clinically relevant bacteria in sewage
wastewater, prompting an intense health impact over antibiotic usage.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1099/acmi.0.000095 
PMCID: PMC7470316
PMID: 32974572 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts
of interest.

