
1. Enzyme Microb Technol. 2020 Sep;139:109586. doi: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2020.109586.
Epub 2020 May 21.

Production of optically pure (-)-borneol by Pseudomonas monteilii TCU-CK1 and
characterization of borneol dehydrogenase involved.

Khine AA(1), Yang MY(2), Hu A(3), Lin GH(4), Toh YH(4), Chen HP(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Tzu Chi University, Hualien 97004, Taiwan;
Institute of Medical Sciences, Tzu Chi University, Hualien 97004, Taiwan;
Department of Biochemistry, University of Medicine 1 Yangon, Myanmar.
(2)Institute of Medical Sciences, Tzu Chi University, Hualien 97004, Taiwan;
Department of Laboratory Medicine and Biotechnology, Tzu Chi University, Hualien 
97004, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Biotechnology, Tzu Chi University,
Hualien 97004, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Medicine, Tzu Chi
University, Hualien 97004, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Tzu Chi University, Hualien 97004, Taiwan;
Institute of Medical Sciences, Tzu Chi University, Hualien 97004, Taiwan;
Integration Center of Traditional Chinese and Modern Medicine, Hualien Tzu Chi
Hospital, Hualien 97002, Taiwan. Electronic address: hpchen@mail.tcu.edu.tw.

(-)-Borneol is a bicyclic plant secondary metabolite. Optically pure (-)-borneol 
can only be obtained from plants, and demand exceeds supply in China. In
contrast, chemically synthesized borneol contains four different stereoisomers. A
strain of Pseudomonas monteilii TCU-CK1, isolated in Hualien, Taiwan, can
accumulate (-)-borneol in growth culture and selectively degrades the other three
isomers when chemically synthesized borneol is used as sole carbon source. This
(-)-borneol production method can be scaled-up for production of large quantities
in the future. More importantly, laborious plant cultivation and harvest is no
longer required. The main enzyme that appears in this degradation pathway,
borneol dehydrogenase (BDH), and the genome sequence of TCU-CK1 are reported. The
kcat/Km values of TCU-CK1 BDH on (+)- and (-)-borneol are 538.4 ± 38.4 and 17.7 ±
1.1 (s-1 mM-1), respectively. About ∼30 fold difference in the kcat/Km value
between (+)-borneol and (-)-borneol was observed, in good agreement with the fact
that TCU-CK1 prefers to degrade (+)-borneol, rather than (-)-borneol. A BDH
isozyme was identified in a strain in which the primary BDH gene had been knocked
out. (-)-Camphor can work as an inhibitor of BDH with a Ki of 1.03 ± 0.11 mM at
pH 7.0, leading to the accumulation of (-)-borneol in culture. (Patent pending).

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enzmictec.2020.109586 
PMID: 32732035 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare no conflict of interest.

