
1. J Dairy Res. 2020 Aug;87(3):368-374. doi: 10.1017/S0022029920000709. Epub 2020
Sep 7.

Identification of Pseudomonas jessenii and Pseudomonas gessardii as the most
proteolytic Pseudomonas isolates in Iranian raw milk and their impact on
stability of sterilized milk during storage.

Zarei M(1), Mohammadpour H(1), Gharibi D(2), Pourmahdi Borujeni M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Hygiene, Shahid Chamran University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.
(2)Department of Pathobiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Shahid Chamran
University of Ahvaz, Ahvaz, Iran.

Identification of the most proteolytic Pseudomonas strains that can produce
heat-resistant proteases and contribute to the Ultra High Temperature (UHT) milk 
destabilization is of great interest. In the present study, among the 146
Pseudomonas isolates that encoded the aprX gene, five isolates with the highest
proteolytic activity were selected and identified based on 16S rRNA, rpoD and
gyrB gene sequences data. The identification results were confirmed by
phylogenetic analysis based on multilocus sequence analysis and identified the
representative isolates as P. jessenii (two isolates) and P. gessardii (three
isolates). Casein zymography demonstrated the ability of these species to produce
heat-resistant enzymes, AprX, with molecular mass of about 48 kDa during storage 
at 7Â° C for 72 h. In sterilized milk samples, the residual activity of AprX
caused a considerable enhancement in the degree of protein hydrolysis,
non-protein nitrogen and non-casein nitrogen contents of the samples during a
two-month storage. This enhancement was slightly higher in samples containing
enzyme produced by P. jessenii compared to P. gessardii ones, resulting in
earlier onset of sterilized milk destabilization. Hence, this study revealed that
P. jessenii and P. gessardii can play a considerable role in deterioration of
Iranian commercial long-life milk.

DOI: 10.1017/S0022029920000709 
PMID: 32893770 

