
1. Molecules. 2020 Feb 8;25(3). pii: E738. doi: 10.3390/molecules25030738.

Current Approaches to and Future Perspectives on Methomyl Degradation in
Contaminated Soil/Water Environments.

Lin Z(1)(2), Zhang W(1)(2), Pang S(1)(2), Huang Y(1)(2), Mishra S(1)(2), Bhatt
P(1)(2), Chen S(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Subtropical
Agro-bioresources, Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of Microbial Signals and
Disease Control, Integrative Microbiology Research Centre, South China
Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642, China.
(2)Guangdong Laboratory of Lingnan Modern Agriculture, Guangzhou 510642, China.

Methomyl is a broad-spectrum oxime carbamate commonly used to control arthropods,
nematodes, flies, and crop pests. However, extensive use of this pesticide in
agricultural practices has led to environmental toxicity and human health issues.
Oxidation, incineration, adsorption, and microbial degradation methods have been 
developed to remove insecticidal residues from soil/water environments. Compared 
with physicochemical methods, biodegradation is considered to be a cost-effective
and ecofriendly approach to the removal of pesticide residues. Therefore,
micro-organisms have become a key component of the degradation and detoxification
of methomyl through catabolic pathways and genetic determinants. Several species 
of methomyl-degrading bacteria have been isolated and characterized, including
Paracoccus, Pseudomonas, Aminobacter, Flavobacterium, Alcaligenes, Bacillus,
Serratia, Novosphingobium, and Trametes. The degradation pathways of methomyl and
the fate of several metabolites have been investigated. Further in-depth studies 
based on molecular biology and genetics are needed to elaborate their role in the
evolution of novel catabolic pathways and the microbial degradation of methomyl. 
In this review, we highlight the mechanism of microbial degradation of methomyl
along with metabolic pathways and genes/enzymes of different genera.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25030738 
PMCID: PMC7036768
PMID: 32046287 

