
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Feb;85:103304. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2019.103304. Epub 2019 Aug 
17.

HRM analysis as a tool to facilitate identification of bacteria from mussels
during storage at 4 °C.

Parlapani FF(1), Syropoulou F(2), Tsiartsafis A(2), Ekonomou S(2), Madesis P(3), 
Exadactylos A(4), Boziaris IS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Lab of Marketing and Technology of Aquatic Products and Foods, Department of
Ichthyology and Aquatic Environment, School of Agricultural Sciences, University 
of Thessaly, Fytokou street, 38446, Volos, Greece. Electronic address:
fwparlap@uth.gr.
(2)Lab of Marketing and Technology of Aquatic Products and Foods, Department of
Ichthyology and Aquatic Environment, School of Agricultural Sciences, University 
of Thessaly, Fytokou street, 38446, Volos, Greece.
(3)Institute of Applied Biosciences, Centre for Research and Technology Hellas
(CERTH), 57001, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(4)Lab of Hydrobiology-Ichthyology, Department of Ichthyology and Aquatic
Environment, School of Agricultural Sciences, University of Thessaly, Fytokou
street, 38446, Volos, Greece.

High-resolution melting (HRM) analysis followed by sequencing was applied for
determination of bacteria grown on plates isolated from farmed mussels (Mytilus
galloprovincialis) during their storage at 4 °C. The V3-V4 region of the 16S rRNA
gene from the isolates was amplified using 16S universal primers. Melting curves 
(peaks) and high resolution melting curves (shape) of the amplicons and
sequencing analysis were used for differentiation and identification of the
isolated bacteria, respectively. The majority of the isolates (a sum of 101
colonies, from five time intervals: day 0, 2, 4, 6 and 8) from non-selective
solid medium plates were classified in four bacterial groups based on the melting
curves (peaks) and HRM curves (shape) of the amplicons, while three isolates
presented distinct HRM curve profiles (single). Afterwards, sequencing analysis
showed that the isolates with a) the same melting peak temperature and b) HRM
curves that were >95% similar grouped into the same bacterial species. Therefore,
based on this methodology, the cultivable microbial population of chill-stored
mussels was initially dominated by Psychrobacter alimentarius against others,
such as Psychrobacter pulmonis, Psychrobacter celer and Klebsiella pneumoniae. P.
alimentarius was also the dominant microorganism at the time of the sensory
rejection (day 8). Concluding, HRM analysis could be used as a useful tool for
the rapid differentiation of the bacteria isolated from mussels during storage,
at species level, and then identification is feasible by the sequencing of one
only representative of each bacterial species, thus reducing the cost of required
sequencing.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2019.103304 
PMID: 31500716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

