
1. J Thorac Dis. 2020 Apr;12(4):1305-1311. doi: 10.21037/jtd.2020.02.56.

Clinical characteristics and treatment outcomes of patients with pneumonia caused
by Raoultella planticola.

Hong G(1), Yong HJ(1), Lee D(2), Kim DH(1), Kim YS(1), Park JS(1), Jee YK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Department of
Internal Medicine, Dankook University Hospital, Dankook University College of
Medicine, Cheonan, South Korea.
(2)Department of Chest Radiology, Dankook University Hospital, Dankook University
College of Medicine, Cheonan, South Korea.

Background: Raoultella planticola, considered to be an environmental organism, is
a rare cause of human infections. Although in recent years the frequency of R.
planticola infections reported in the literature has increased, few cases of
pneumonia caused by R. planticola have been described. Here, we investigate the
clinical characteristics, management, and clinical outcomes of pneumonia caused
by R. planticola.
Methods: Consecutive patients with pneumonia caused by R. planticola were
included. The medical records of patients with R. planticola pneumonia treated at
Dankook University Hospital from January 2011 to December 2017 were collected.
Results: A total of 11 adult patients with R. planticola pneumonia were diagnosed
and treated [10 males and 1 female; median age, 70 years (range: 51-79 years)]; 5
patients had underlying malignant conditions (45.5%). Antibacterial
susceptibility testing showed that all isolates of R. planticola were susceptible
to cephalosporins, carbapenems, fluoroquinolones, aminoglycosides, and
beta-lactams/beta-lactamase inhibitors. Chest imaging revealed consolidation
(8/11, 72.7%), ground-glass opacity (5/11, 45.5%), pleural effusion (5/11,
45.5%), and micronodules (3/11, 27.3%). Four patients (36.4%) required mechanical
ventilation; three survived but one died of multiple organ dysfunction syndrome
(principally pneumonia and septic shock).
Conclusions: R. planticola pneumonia occurred mainly in patients with underlying 
risk factors such as malignant disease, cerebral infarction or hemorrhage, and
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The organism was sensitive to most
antibiotics, and the clinical outcomes were favorable after empirical antibiotic 
therapy.

2020 Journal of Thoracic Disease. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/jtd.2020.02.56 
PMCID: PMC7212158
PMID: 32395267 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have completed
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at
http://dx.doi.org/10.21037/jtd.2020.02.56). The authors have no conflicts of
interest to declare.

