
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Apr;103(4):3392-3400. doi: 10.3168/jds.2019-17324. Epub 2020
Feb 20.

Characterization of Klebsiella isolates obtained from clinical mastitis cases in 
dairy cattle.

Massé J(1), Dufour S(2), Archambault M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Microbiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
Université de Montréal, Regroupement de Recherche pour un Lait de Qualité
Optimale (Op+Lait), Saint-Hyacinthe, Québec, J2S 2M2, Canada; Groupe de Recherche
sur les Maladies Infectieuses en Productions Animales (GREMIP), Saint-Hyacinthe, 
Québec, J2S 2M2, Canada.
(2)Department of Pathology and Microbiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
Université de Montréal, Regroupement de Recherche pour un Lait de Qualité
Optimale (Op+Lait), Saint-Hyacinthe, Québec, J2S 2M2, Canada; Mastitis Network,
Saint-Hyacinthe, Québec, J2S 2M2, Canada.
(3)Department of Pathology and Microbiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
Université de Montréal, Regroupement de Recherche pour un Lait de Qualité
Optimale (Op+Lait), Saint-Hyacinthe, Québec, J2S 2M2, Canada; Groupe de Recherche
sur les Maladies Infectieuses en Productions Animales (GREMIP), Saint-Hyacinthe, 
Québec, J2S 2M2, Canada. Electronic address: marie.archambault@umontreal.ca.

Klebsiella spp. are important opportunistic pathogens commonly defined as
environmental clinical mastitis agents. Despite Klebsiella mastitis being
clinically impairing in cows and costly to the industry, only a few studies
describe Klebsiella isolated from mastitis cases. The aim of this work was to
characterize species of Klebsiella involved in clinical mastitis cases in Canada.
Klebsiella isolated from clinical mastitis cases (n = 53) were identified to the 
species level using a biochemical test panel and matrix-assisted laser
desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The rpoB gene sequence
was used as the gold standard method and identified Klebsiella pneumoniae (n =
40), Klebsiella oxytoca (n = 9), Raoultella ornithinolytica (n = 2), and
Raoultella planticola (n = 2). Raoultella, a genus closely related to Klebsiella,
was also accurately identified using mass spectrometry but not via biochemical
testing. Using the disc diffusion technique, 31 (58%) isolates were found to be
susceptible to all antimicrobials tested (n = 18). The remaining 22 (42%)
isolates were resistant to 1 or more of the following antimicrobials: kanamycin
(2%), streptomycin (38%), spectinomycin (13%), sulfisoxazole (13%), and
tetracycline (19%). The following antimicrobial resistance genes were identified:
tetA, tetB, sul1, strA/strB, and aadA. Random amplified polymorphic DNA revealed 
the majority of our isolates as unrelated and having different patterns,
indicating environmental contamination as the primary source of infection. All
isolates were shown to be biofilm producers. In conclusion, although
antimicrobial resistance was low for both Klebsiella and Raoultella species,
genetically related Klebsiella spp. isolates appeared to be more resistant.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2019-17324 
PMID: 32089315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

