
1. 3 Biotech. 2020 Feb;10(2):42. doi: 10.1007/s13205-019-2027-7. Epub 2020 Jan 10.

Microbial diversity changes and enrichment of potential petroleum hydrocarbon
degraders in crude oil-, diesel-, and gasoline-contaminated soil.

Bidja Abena MT(1)(2), Chen G(1), Chen Z(1), Zheng X(1), Li S(1), Li T(1), Zhong
W(1).

Author information: 
(1)1College of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Zhejiang University of
Technology, Hangzhou, 310032 China.
(2)2International College, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou, 310032
China.

This study investigated the impacts of crude oil, diesel, and gasoline on the
diversity of indigenous microbial communities as well as culturable
microorganisms in the studied soil. Oil contamination led to shifts in
the diversity of the soil's microbial communities, regardless of the contaminant 
applied. Unpolluted soils were more diverse and evenly distributed than
contaminated samples. The domain Bacteria accounted for 65.15% of the whole
microbial community. The bacterial phylum Proteobacteria dominated in all
samples, followed by Actinobacteria and Acidobacteria. Pseudomonas with 28.15% of
reads dominated in Proteobacteria, while Rhodococcus (3.07%) dominated in
Actinobacteria, and Blastocatella (2.53%) dominated in Acidobacteria. The
dominant fungal phyla across all samples were Ascomycota dominated by Penicillium
(50.48% of sequences), and Zygomycota dominated by Mortierella (16.87%).
Sequences similar to the archaeal phyla, Euryarchaeota and Thaumarchaeota, were
also detected. The number of culturable microorganisms increased following the
contamination and was higher in contaminated samples than in clean samples. Oil
contamination also resulted in the enrichment of oil-degrading strains. Two
bacteria, Serratia marcescens strain PL and Raoultella ornithinolytica PS, which 
were isolated from crude oil-contaminated soil, exhibited strong crude oil
degradation ability. Strain PL was the most efficient strain and degraded 75.10% 
of crude oil, while strain PL degraded 65.48%, after 20 days of incubation.
However, the mixed culture of the two strains was more effective than single
strain and could achieve up to 96.83% of crude oil degradation, with a complete
abatement of straight-chain hydrocarbons (from C12 to C25), and more than 91%
removal of highly branched hydrocarbons, phytane and pristane, which are known to
be more recalcitrant to biodegradation. Strains PS and PL are two newly isolated 
crude oil degraders that are not among the most prominent crude oil-degrading
strains referenced in the literature. Therefore, their high degradation capacity 
makes them perfect candidates for the bioremediation of petroleum hydrocarbon
contaminated environments.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-019-2027-7 
PMCID: PMC6954164 [Available on 2021-02-01]
PMID: 31988836 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestOn behalf of all authors, the
corresponding author states that there is no conflict of interest.

