
1. Environ Pollut. 2020 May;260:113950. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.113950. Epub 2020
Jan 14.

An epifluorescence-based technique accelerates risk assessment of aggregated
bacterial communities in carcass and environment.

Mahmoud MAM(1), Zaki RS(2), Abd-Elhafeez HH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal hygiene and Environmental Sanitation, Assiut, 71526,
Egypt. Electronic address: manalmahmoud@vet.au.edu.eg.
(2)Department of Food Hygiene, New Valley, 72511, Egypt.
(3)Department of Anatomy, Embryology and Histology, Assiut, 71526, Egypt.

The severe and pervasive effects of multispecies foodborne microbial biofilms
highlight the importance of rapid detection and diagnosis of contamination risk
in the field using epifluorescence-based techniques (EBT) combined with automatic
image-counting software. This study screened the hygiene quality of the
environment, the carcass and the slaughtering equipment in the El-Kharga
abattoir, New Valley Province, Egypt, to assess possible contamination during
slaughter process. In addition, biofilm was assessed, and bacteria was enumerated
by epifluorescence microscopy. Using both conventional and EBT, the highest
bacterial counts were observed for the slaughtering equipment (6.6 and
5.2 cfu/cm2, respectively), followed by different parts of the carcass (4.1 and
4.4 cfu/cm2, respectively) and environmental samples (3.9 and 4.1 cfu/cm2,
respectively). A high prevalence of E. coli O157:H7 was observed on the
slaughtering equipment (25%), which also led to carcass (1%) contamination.
Moreover, Enterobacteriaceae members were detected during examination, such as
Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterobacter aerogenes, and Raoultella ornithinolytica.
Despite the relatively good hygiene quality of the abattoir environment, there is
also a high risk associated with biofilm formation by pathogenic microorganisms
on the slaughtering equipment. Moreover, EBT showed different structures of the
biofilm, including those formed at different maturation stages, such as voids,
microbubbles, channels and mushroom shapes. (EBT) microscopy combined with
image-counting software could be a candidate substitute to estimate efficiently, 
precisely and rapidly the microbial aggregation and exposure risk in field than
the conventional counting techniques.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.113950 
PMID: 32069699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest (No personal,
professional or financial relationships constructed a potential conflict of
interest relevant to this article was reported).

