
1. Infect Drug Resist. 2019 Dec 20;12:3935-3942. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S233795.
eCollection 2019.

Fecal Carriage and Epidemiology of Carbapenem-Resistant Enterobacteriaceae Among 
Hospitalized Patients in a University Hospital.

Liu Q(1), Liu L(1), Li Y(1), Chen X(1), Yan Q(1), Liu WE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Xiangya Hospital of Central South
University, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China.

Purpose: To determine the prevalence and epidemiology of fecal carriage of
carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE), antimicrobial susceptibility,
carbapenemase phenotype/genotype, and the colistin-resistance gene mcr-1 in a
university hospital in China.
Methods: A comprehensive study of the fecal carriage of CRE in 704 patients was
performed. Multilocus sequence typing (MLST) and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis
(PFGE) were applied to elucidate the molecular epidemiology of the isolates.
Results: In total, 60 CRE were detected in the 704 stool samples (8.5%),
including 42 Klebsiella pneumoniae, 7 Escherichia coli, 3 Citrobacter freundii, 3
Klebsiella oxytoca, 3 Enterobacter cloacae, 1 Enterobacter aerogenes, and 1
Raoultella planticola. Fifty-five CRE isolates were positive for the
carbapenemase phenotype, of which 39 were Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase
(KPC) producers. Thirty KPC-producing K. pneumoniae sequence type (ST) 11
isolates were identified and 28 were grouped into one cluster with a similarity
of ≥85%, of predominately intensive care unit (ICU) strains. Three KPC-producing 
ST1889 strains were isolated from the pediatric ward, all indistinguishable and
resistant to tigecycline. All CRE were susceptible to colistin and negative for
mcr-1.
Conclusion: This study revealed a predominant fecal carriage of the KPC-producing
K. pneumoniae ST11 clone, with several indistinguishable strain clusters, and the
emergence of ST1889 in a Chinese university hospital. This evidence of
cross-infection supports the urgent need for the implementation of infection
control measures to prevent CRE dissemination.

© 2019 Liu et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S233795 
PMCID: PMC6929936
PMID: 31908504 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in
this work.

