
1. Front Pediatr. 2020 Jul 10;8:362. doi: 10.3389/fped.2020.00362. eCollection 2020.

Raoultella ornithinolytica Infection in the Pediatric Population: A Retrospective
Study.

Pi DD(1)(2), Zhou F(1)(2), Bai K(1)(2), Liu C(1)(2), Xu F(1)(2), Li J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Intensive Care Unit, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University,
Chongqing, China.
(2)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Child Development and Disorders,
National Clinical Research Center for Child Health and Disorders, China
International Science and Technology Cooperation Base of Child Development and
Critical Disorders, Chongqing Key Laboratory of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital
of Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.

Raoultella ornithinolytica is a pathogen causing an increasing number of
pediatric infections. The objective of this study was to investigate the clinical
characteristics of R. ornithinolytica infections in children. As a retrospective 
analysis, clinical features and drug susceptibility data of the five cases were
analyzed and related literature was reviewed. A total of 14 cases (eight females,
six males) were analyzed: nine cases were retrieved from PubMed, Web of Science, 
and three domestic databases; five cases occurred in our hospital. The primary
diseases of the older children were mainly of neoplastic and immune origin, while
cases of infants and young children were mostly complicated by congenital
malformation. Fever was the main symptom, and neonatal infection was mainly
manifested by dyspnea and hypoxemia, with multiple skin flushes, systemic
erythema, and leukocytosis. Of the 14 cases, six were ventilator-assisted, five
had indwelling urethral catheters, three had surgical treatment or chemotherapy, 
and one had multiple rounds of continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT). Blood
infection is the main route of R. ornithinolytica infection in children. Skin
flushing and systemic erythema might be positive clues for newborn infection.
Patients with multiple congenital abnormalities are susceptible to infection.
Tumors, immune deficiency, and invasive operations increase the risk of
infection. Blood culture was the main method of disease identification. Based on 
the drug susceptibility results, the preferred antibiotics are third generations 
of cephalosporins, carbapenems, quinolone, and aminoglycoside. Lastly, patients
with sepsis mostly have poor prognosis.

Copyright Â© 2020 Pi, Zhou, Bai, Liu, Xu and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fped.2020.00362 
PMCID: PMC7366290
PMID: 32754562 

