
1. Case Rep Med. 2020 Mar 30;2020:1710271. doi: 10.1155/2020/1710271. eCollection
2020.

Unusual Localization of an Emergent Bacterium, Raoultella ornithinolytica.

Cavaliere M(1), Bartoletti G(1), Capriglione P(1), Di Lullo AM(1), Motta G(2),
Iengo M(1), Cantone E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Reproductive and Odontostomatological Sciences-ENT
Section, University "Federico II", Naples, Italy.
(2)Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery Unit, Department of Mental and
Physical Health and Preventive Medicine, Università degli Studi della Campania
Luigi Vanvitelli, Naples, Italy.

Raoultella ornithinolytica is a bacterium belonging to the family
Enterobacteriacae. It is a rare but emergent cause of human pathologies
especially in immunocompromised patients. We described the first case in the
literature of isolated external otitis sustained by Raoultella ornithinolytica in
an immunocompetent host. A 54-year-old Caucasian man with a history of previous
myringoplasty came to our attention reporting otalgia and otorrhea. We performed 
right ear swab for culture examination, meanwhile we started empirical therapy
with topic administration of neomycin, without any clinical improvement. The
cultural examination showed the presence of a Raoultella ornithinolytica
infection. After ten days of treatment with oral ciprofloxacin and topic
levofloxacin, there was the complete resolution of pain and inflammation.
Raoultella ornithinolytica must be taken into consideration as an emergent cause 
of human infection, also in case of external otitis. Infection can be severe and 
can occur both in immunocompromised and in immunocompetent hosts. Culture test is
mandatory to choose the proper therapy and avoid potential severe complications.

Copyright © 2020 Michele Cavaliere et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/1710271 
PMCID: PMC7149419
PMID: 32292483 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest.

