
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Apr 22;8(4). pii: E608. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8040608.

Isolation, Identification and Characterization of Endophytic Bacterium Rhizobium 
oryzihabitans sp. nov., from Rice Root with Biotechnological Potential in
Agriculture.

Zhao J(1), Zhao X(2), Wang J(1), Gong Q(1), Zhang X(1), Zhang G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Microbial Resources Collection and Preservation, Ministry of
Agriculture, Institute of Agricultural Resources and Regional Planning, Chinese
Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 100081, China.
(2)Beijing Research Institute of Chemical Engineering and Metallurgy, Beijing
101149, China.

A flagellate, rod-shaped bacterium designated strain M15T was isolated from rice 
roots. Phylogenetic analysis based on the sequences of the 16S rRNA, housekeeping
genes and genomes showed that the isolate belonged to the genus Rhizobium, with
the highest 16S rRNA similarity to Rhizobium radiobacter LMG140T (99.64%) and
Rhizobium pusense NRCPB10T (99.36%), respectively. The complete genome of the
strain M15T has a 59.28% G+C content, and the highest average nucleotide identity
(ANI) and DNA-DNA relatedness (DDH) values were obtained with R. radiobacter
LMG140T (88.11%, 54.80%), R. pusense NRCPB10T (86.00%, 53.00%) and R. nepotum
39/7T (88.80%, 49.80%), respectively. Plant growth-promoting characteristics
tests showed that the strain M15T produced siderophore,
1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) 
and also produced some secondary metabolites according to the analysis of the
comparative genomes. Based on the data mentioned above, we proposed that the
strain M15T represented a novel species of the genus Rhizobium, named Rhizobium
oryzihabitans sp. nov. The type strain is M15T (=JCM 32903Tâ€‰ = ACCC 60121T), and 
the strain M15T can be a novel biofertilizer Rhizobium to reduce the use of
synthetic fertilizers for plant growth promotion.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8040608 
PMCID: PMC7232506
PMID: 32331293 

