
1. Beilstein J Org Chem. 2020 Mar 2;16:297-304. doi: 10.3762/bjoc.16.29. eCollection
2020.

Two antibacterial and PPARα/γ-agonistic unsaturated keto fatty acids from a
coral-associated actinomycete of the genus Micrococcus.

Sharma AR(1), Harunari E(1), Oku N(1), Matsuura N(2), Trianto A(3), Igarashi
Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology Research Center and Department of Biotechnology, Toyama
Prefectural University, 5180 Kurokawa, Imizu, Toyama 939-0398, Japan.
(2)Okayama University of Science, 1-1 Ridaicho, Okayama 700-0005, Japan.
(3)Faculty of Fisheries and Marine Sciences, Diponegoro University, Tembalang
Campus, St. Prof. Soedarto SH., Semarang 50275, Central Java, Indonesia.

A pair of geometrically isomeric unsaturated keto fatty acids, (6E,8Z)- and
(6E,8E)-5-oxo-6,8-tetradecadienoic acids (1 and 2), were isolated from the
culture broth of an actinomycete of the genus Micrococcus, which was associated
with a stony coral, Catalaphyllia sp. Their chemical structures were elucidated
by spectroscopic analysis including NMR and MS, with special assistance of spin
system simulation studies for the assignment of an E geometry at C8 in 2. As
metabolites of microbes, compounds 1 and 2 are unprecedented in terms of bearing 
a 2,4-dienone system. Both 1 and 2 showed antibacterial activity against the
plant pathogen Rhizobium radiobacter and the fish pathogen Tenacibaculum
maritimum, with a contrasting preference that 1 is more effective to the former
strain while 2 is so to the latter. In addition, compounds 1 and 2 displayed
agonistic activity against peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs)
with an isoform specificity towards PPARα and PPARγ.

Copyright © 2020, Sharma et al.; licensee Beilstein-Institut.

DOI: 10.3762/bjoc.16.29 
PMCID: PMC7082699
PMID: 32256847 

