
1. Sci Total Environ. 2019 Dec 1;694:133688. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.133688.
Epub 2019 Jul 30.

Aerobic cometabolism of 1,4-dioxane by isobutane-utilizing microorganisms
including Rhodococcus rhodochrous strain 21198 in aquifer microcosms:
Experimental and modeling study.

Rolston HM(1), Hyman MR(2), Semprini L(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemical, Biological, and Environmental Engineering, Oregon State
University, Corvallis, OR, USA.
(2)Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, North Carolina State University,
Raleigh, NC, USA.
(3)School of Chemical, Biological, and Environmental Engineering, Oregon State
University, Corvallis, OR, USA. Electronic address:
lewis.semprini@oregonstate.edu.

Aerobic cometabolism of the emerging contaminant 1,4-dioxane (1,4-D) by
isobutane-utilizing microorganisms was assessed in pure culture and aquifer
microcosm studies. The bacterium Rhodococcus rhodochrous strain ATCC 21198
transformed low, environmentally-relevant concentrations of 1,4-D when grown on
isobutane. Microcosms were constructed with aquifer solids from Fort Carson,
Colorado, a site contaminated with 1,4-D and trichloroethene (TCE). Multiple
additions of isobutane and 1,4-D over 300 days were transformed in microcosms
biostimulated with isobutane and microcosms bioaugmented with strain 21198.
Results showed that, over time and with sufficient inorganic nutrients,
biostimulation of native microorganisms with isobutane was just as effective as
bioaugmentation with strain 21198 to achieve 1,4-D transformation in the
microcosms. The presence of TCE at 0.2 mg/L did not inhibit 1,4-D transformation,
though TCE itself was not readily transformed. An iterative process was used to
determine kinetic parameter values to fit Michaelis-Menten/Monod models to
experimental data for simultaneous isobutane utilization, biomass growth, and
cometabolic transformation of 1,4-D. Parameter optimization resulted in good
model fit to the data over multiple transformations of isobutane and 1,4-D in
both short- and long-term experiments. Results suggest low concentrations of
1,4-D studied in the microcosms were cometabolically transformed according to a
pseudo first-order rate of 0.37 L/mg TSS/day of 21198. Isobutane consumption was 
modeled with a maximum rate of 2.58 mg/mg TSS/day and a half saturation constant 
of 0.09 mg/L. 1,4-D transformation was competitively inhibited by the presence of
isobutane and transformation rates were significantly reduced when inorganic
nutrients were limiting. Simulations of the repeated additions found a
first-order microbial endogenous decay coefficient of 0.03 day-1 fit the
alternating periods of active transformation and stagnation between isobutane and
1,4-D additions over approximately one year. The model fitting process
highlighted the importance of determining kinetic parameters from data
representing low concentrations typically found in the environment.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.133688 
PMID: 31756820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

