
1. Int J Genomics. 2020 Aug 25;2020:9369182. doi: 10.1155/2020/9369182. eCollection 
2020.

The Analysis of Estrogen-Degrading and Functional Metabolism Genes in Rhodococcus
equi DSSKP-R-001.

Tian K(1), Meng F(1), Meng Q(1), Gao Y(2), Zhang L(2), Wang L(1), Wang Y(2), Li
X(1), Huo H(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Environment, Northeast Normal University, No. 2555 Jingyue Avenue,
Changchun City, Jilin Province, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Northeast Normal University, No. 5268, Renmin Main
Street, Nanguan District, Changchun City, Jilin Province, China.
(3)Jilin Province Laboratory of Water Pollution Control and Resource Engineering,
Changchun 130117, China.

Estrogen contamination is recognized as one of the most serious environmental
problems, causing widespread concern worldwide. Environmental estrogens are
mainly derived from human and vertebrate excretion, drugs, and agricultural
activities. The use of microorganisms is currently the most economical and
effective method for biodegradation of environmental estrogens. Rhodococcus equi 
DSSKP-R-001 (R-001) has strong estrogen-degrading capabilities. Our study
indicated that R-001 can use different types of estrogen as its sole carbon
source for growth and metabolism, with final degradation rates above 90%.
Transcriptome analysis showed that 720 (E1), 983 (E2), and 845 (EE2) genes were
significantly upregulated in the estrogen-treated group compared with the control
group, and 270 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were upregulated across all 
treatment groups. These DEGs included ABC transporters; estrogen-degrading genes,
including those that perform initial oxidation and dehydrogenation reactions and 
those that further degrade the resulting substrates into small molecules; and
metabolism genes that complete the intracellular transformation and utilization
of estrogen metabolites through biological processes such as amino acid
metabolism, lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and the tricarboxylic acid
cycle. In summary, the biodegradation of estrogens is coordinated by a metabolic 
network of estrogen-degrading enzymes, transporters, metabolic enzymes, and other
coenzymes. In this study, the metabolic mechanisms by which Rhodococcus equi
R-001 degrades various estrogens were analyzed for the first time. A new
pollutant metabolism system is outlined, providing a starting point for the
construction of engineered estrogen-degrading bacteria.

Copyright Â© 2020 Kejian Tian et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/9369182 
PMCID: PMC7471831
PMID: 32908857 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest.

