
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 Apr 17;86(9). pii: e00108-20. doi:
10.1128/AEM.00108-20. Print 2020 Apr 17.

Horizontal Spread of Rhodococcus equi Macrolide Resistance Plasmid pRErm46 across
Environmental Actinobacteria.

Álvarez-Narváez S(1), Giguère S(2), Berghaus LJ(2), Dailey C(3), Vázquez-Boland
JA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Large Animal Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia, USA sonsiray.alvarez@uga.edu.
(2)Department of Large Animal Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Statistics, College of Public Health,
University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia, USA.
(4)Microbial Pathogenesis Group, Infection Medicine, Edinburgh Medical School
(Biomedical Sciences), University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

Conjugation is one of the main mechanisms involved in the spread and maintenance 
of antibiotic resistance in bacterial populations. We recently showed that the
emerging macrolide resistance in the soilborne equine and zoonotic pathogen
Rhodococcus equi is conferred by the erm(46) gene carried on the 87-kb
conjugative plasmid pRErm46. Here, we investigated the conjugal transferability
of pRErm46 to 14 representative bacteria likely encountered by R. equi in the
environmental habitat. In vitro mating experiments demonstrated conjugation to
different members of the genus Rhodococcus as well as to Nocardia and
Arthrobacter spp. at frequencies ranging from ∼10-2 to 10-6 pRErm46 transfer was 
also observed in mating experiments in soil and horse manure, albeit at a low
frequency and after prolonged incubation at 22 to 30°C (environmental
temperatures), not 37°C. All transconjugants were able to transfer pRErm46 back
to R. equi Conjugation could not be detected with Mycobacterium or
Corynebacterium spp. or several members of the more distant phylum Firmicutes
such as Enterococcus, Streptococcus, or Staphylococcus Thus, the pRErm46 host
range appears to span several actinobacterial orders with certain host
restriction within the Corynebacteriales All bacterial species that acquired
pRErm46 expressed increased macrolide resistance with no significant deleterious 
impact on fitness, except in the case of Rhodococcus rhodnii Our results indicate
that actinobacterial members of the environmental microbiota can both acquire and
transmit the R. equi pRErm46 plasmid and thus potentially contribute to the
maintenance and spread of erm(46)-mediated macrolide resistance in equine
farms.IMPORTANCE This study demonstrates the efficient horizontal transfer of the
Rhodococcus equi conjugative plasmid pRErm46, recently identified as the cause of
the emerging macrolide resistance among equine isolates of this pathogen, to and 
from different environmental Actinobacteria, including a variety of rhodococci as
well as Nocardia and Arthrobacter spp. The reported data support the notion that 
environmental microbiotas may act as reservoirs for the endemic maintenance of
antimicrobial resistance in an antibiotic pressurized farm habitat.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00108-20 
PMCID: PMC7170479 [Available on 2020-10-17]
PMID: 32169935 

