
1. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2019 Oct 23;11(42):38519-38530. doi:
10.1021/acsami.9b14403. Epub 2019 Oct 14.

"Ghost" Silica Nanoparticles of "Host"-Inherited Antibacterial Action.

Halbus AF(1)(2), Horozov TS(1), Paunov VN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry , University of Hull , Hull HU6â€¯7RX ,
United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Chemistry, College of Science , University of Babylon , Hilla
51001 , Iraq.

We fabricated surface-rough mesoporous silica nanoparticles ("ghost" SiO2NPs) by 
using composite mesoporous copper oxide nanoparticles ("host" CuONPs) as
templates, which allowed us to mimic their surface morphology. The "host" CuONPs 
used here as templates, however, had a very high antibacterial effect, with or
without functionalization. To evaluate the surface roughness effect on the
"ghost" SiO2NPs antibacterial action, we functionalized them with
(3-glycidyloxypropyl)trimethoxysilane (GLYMO) to permit additional covalent
coupling of 4-hydroxyphenylboronic acid (4-HPBA). The diol groups on the
bacterial membrane can form reversible covalent bonds with boronic acid (BA)
groups on the "ghost" SiO2NPs surface and bind to the bacteria, resulting in a
very strong amplification of their antibacterial activity, which does not depend 
on electrostatic adhesion. The BA-functionalized "ghost" SiO2NPs showed a very
significant antibacterial effect as compared to smooth SiO2NPs of the same
surface coating and particle size. We attribute this to the "ghost" SiO2NPs
mesoporous surface morphology, which mimics to a certain extent those of the
original mesoporous CuONPs used as templates for their preparation. We envisage
that the "ghost" SiO2NPs effectively acquire some of the antibacterial properties
from the "host" CuONPs, with the same functionality, despite being completely
free of copper. The antibacterial effect of the functionalized "ghost"
SiO2NPs/GLYMO/4-HPBA on Rhodococcus rhodochrous (R. rhodochrous) and Escherichia 
coli (E. coli) is much higher than that of the nonfunctionalized "ghost" SiO2NPs 
or the "ghost" SiO2NPs/GLYMO. The results indicate that the combination of rough 
surface morphology and strong adhesion of the particle surface to the bacteria
can make even benign material such as silica act as a strong antimicrobial agent.
Additionally, our BA-functionalized nanoparticles ("ghost" SiO2NPs/GLYMO/4-HPBA) 
showed no detectable cytotoxic impact against human keratinocytes at particle
concentrations, which are effective against bacteria.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.9b14403 
PMID: 31609105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

