
1. Molecules. 2020 Feb 6;25(3). pii: E709. doi: 10.3390/molecules25030709.

Assessment of Biodegradation Efficiency of Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) and
Petroleum Hydrocarbons (TPH) in Soil Using Three Individual Bacterial Strains and
Their Mixed Culture.

Steliga T(1), Wojtowicz K(1), Kapusta P(2), Brzeszcz J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reservoir Fluid Production Technology, Oil and Gas
Institute-National Research Institute, ul. Lubicz 25 A, 31-503 Krakow, Poland.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Oil and Gas Institute-National Research Institute,
ul. Lubicz 25A, 31-503 Krakow, Poland.

Biodegradation is one of the most effective and profitable methods for the
elimination of toxic polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and total petroleum
hydrocarbons (TPH) from the environment. In this study, aerobic degradation of
the mentioned pollutants by bacterial strains Mycolicibacterium frederiksbergense
IN53, Rhodococcus erythropolis IN129, and Rhodococcus sp. IN306 and mixed culture
M1 developed based on those strains at 1:1:1 ratio was analyzed. The
effectiveness of individual strains and of the mixed culture was assessed based
on carried out respirometric tests and chromatographic analyses. The Rhodococcus 
sp. IN306 turned out most effective in terms of 18 PCB congeners biodegradation
(54.4%). The biodegradation index was decreasing with an increasing number of
chlorine atoms in a molecule. Instead, the Mycolicobacterium frederiksbergense
IN53 was the best TPH degrader (37.2%). In a sterile soil, contaminated with PCBs
and TPH, the highest biodegradation effectiveness was obtained using inoculation 
with mixed culture M1, which allowed to reduce both the PCBs (51.8%) and TPH
(34.6%) content. The PCBs and TPH biodegradation capacity of the defined mixed
culture M1 was verified ex-situ with prism method in a non-sterile soil polluted 
with aged petroleum hydrocarbons (TPH) and spent transformer oil (PCBs). After
inoculation with mixed culture M1, the PCBs were reduced during 6 months by 84.5%
and TPH by 70.8% as well as soil toxicity was decreased.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25030709 
PMCID: PMC7036857
PMID: 32041368 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

