
1. AMB Express. 2019 Oct 11;9(1):161. doi: 10.1186/s13568-019-0887-1.

An Arthrobacter citreus strain suitable for degrading ε-caprolactam in polyamide 
waste and accumulation of glutamic acid.

Baxi NN(1), Patel S(2), Hansoti D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Biotechnology Centre, Faculty of Science,
Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda, Vadodara, 390002, India.
nanditabaxi@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Biotechnology Centre, Faculty of Science,
Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda, Vadodara, 390002, India.

ε-Caprolactam-a toxic xenobiotic compound present in industrial polyamide waste
was found to be degraded by caprolactam-degrading bacteria. Arthrobacter citreus 
was able to utilize up to 20 g ε-caprolactam/l as the sole source of carbon more 
efficiently as compared to the other Gram positive caprolactam-degrading bacteria
Rhodococcus rhodochrous and Bacillus sphaericus. The cells of A. citreus remained
viable in medium up to 40 g caprolactam/l. The degradation of 10 g caprolactam/l 
by A. citreus, when supplied as the sole source of carbon and nitrogen lead to
the formation of 6-aminocaproic acid which was detected in broth and there was
also an increase in the ammonium content. One of the other metabolites found to
consistently accumulate in extracellular medium during the utilization of
caprolactam by A. citreus was glutamic acid, though not reported in case of other
caprolactam-degrading bacteria. A. citreus could metabolise caprolactam to form
non toxic products such as 6-aminocaproic acid and glutamic acid which are amino 
acids of physiological and commercial importance. In the presence of
6-aminocaproic acid, the rate of caprolactam utilization by A. citreus was
decreased but not inhibited and the viable count of cells was found to increase
using both the substrates simultaneously. A. citreus was also suitable for
degradation of caprolactam in presence of low phosphate as prevalent in soil, and
in sterile soil without the supplementation of any other carbon or nitrogen, as
well as in native non sterile soil where other microorganisms are present.

DOI: 10.1186/s13568-019-0887-1 
PMCID: PMC6789059
PMID: 31605246 

