
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Aug 31;11:2106. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.02106. eCollection 
2020.

Metagenomic Functional Profiling Reveals Differences in Bacterial Composition and
Function During Bioaugmentation of Aged Petroleum-Contaminated Soil.

Pacwa-Płociniczak M(1), Biniecka P(1), Bondarczuk K(2), Piotrowska-Seget Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biology, Biotechnology and Environmental Protection, Faculty of
Natural Sciences, University of Silesia in Katowice, Katowice, Poland.
(2)Centre for Bioinformatics and Data Analysis, Medical University of Bialystok, 
Białystok, Poland.

Our objective was to study the bacterial community changes that determine
enhanced removal of petroleum hydrocarbons from soils subjected to
bioaugmentation with the hydrocarbon-degrading strains Rhodococcus erythropolis
CD 130, CD 167, and their combination. To achieve this, a high-throughput
sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene was performed. The changes in the bacterial
community composition were most apparent the day after bacterial inoculation.
These changes represented an increase in the percentage abundance of Rhodococcus 
and Pseudomonas genera. Surprisingly, members of the Rhodococcus genus were not
present after day 91. At the end of the experiment, the bacterial communities
from the CD 130, CD 167, and control soils had a similar structure. Nevertheless,
the composition of the bacteria in the CD 130 + CD 167 soil was still distinct
from the control. Metagenomic predictions from the 16S rRNA gene sequences showed
that the introduction of bacteria had a significant influence on the predicted
pathways (metabolism of xenobiotics, lipids, terpenoids, polyketides, and amino
acids) on day one. On day 182, differences in the abundance of functional
pathways were also detected in the CD 130 and CD 130 + CD 167 soils.
Additionally, we observed that on day one, in all bioaugmented soils, the alkH
gene was mainly contributed by the Rhodococcus and Mycobacterium genera, whereas 
in non-treated soil, this gene was contributed only by the Mycobacterium genus.
Interestingly, from day 91, the Mycobacterium genus was the main contributor for 
the tested genes in all studied soils. Our results showed that hydrocarbon
depletion from the analyzed soils resulted from the activity of the autochthonous
bacteria. However, these changes in the composition and function of the
indigenous bacterial community occurred under the influence of the introduced
bacteria.

Copyright © 2020 Pacwa-Płociniczak, Biniecka, Bondarczuk and Piotrowska-Seget.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.02106 
PMCID: PMC7487420
PMID: 32983067 

