
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 May;70(5):3572-3576. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004090.

Conservation of Rhodococcus equi (Magnusson 1923) Goodfellow and Alderson 1977
and rejection of Rhodococcus hoagii (Morse 1912) Kämpfer et al. 2014.

Vázquez-Boland JA(1), Scortti M(1), Meijer WG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Microbial Pathogenesis Group, Edinburgh Medical School (Biomedical Sciences - 
Infection Medicine), University of Edinburgh, Chancellor's Building, Little
France campus, Edinburgh EH16 4SB, UK.
(2)UCD School of Biomolecular and Biomedical Science, University College Dublin, 
Dublin 4, Ireland.

A recent taxonomic study confirmed the synonymy of Rhodococcus equi (Magnusson
1923) Goodfellow and Alderson 1977 and Corynebacterium hoagii (Morse 1912)
Eberson 1918. As a result, both R. equi and C. hoagii were reclassified as
Rhodococcus hoagii comb. nov. in application of the principle of priority of the 
Prokaryotic Code. Because R. equi is a well-known animal and zoonotic human
pathogen, and a bacterial name solidly established in the veterinary and medical 
literature, we and others argued that the nomenclatural change may cause error
and confusion and be potentially perilous. We have now additionally found that
the nomenclatural type of the basonym C. hoagii, ATCC 7005T, does not correspond 
with the original description of the species C. hoagii in the early literature.
Its inclusion as the C. hoagii type on the Approved Lists 1980 results in a
change in the characters of the taxon and in C. hoagii designating two different 
bacteria. Moreover, ATCC 7005, the only strain in circulation under the name C.
hoagii, does not have a well documented history; it is unclear why it was
deposited as C. hoagii and a possible mix-up with a Corynebacterium (Rhodococcus)
equi isolate is a reasonable assumption. We therefore request the rejection of
Rhodococcus hoagii as a nomen ambiguum, nomen dubium and nomen perplexum in
addition to nomen periculosum, and conservation of the name Rhodococcus equi,
according to Rules 56ab of the Code.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004090 
PMCID: PMC7395624
PMID: 32375930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

