
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Feb 11;21(4). pii: E1176. doi: 10.3390/ijms21041176.

Microbial Degradation of Plastic in Aqueous Solutions Demonstrated by CO2
Evolution and Quantification.

Rose RS(1), Richardson KH(1), Latvanen EJ(1), Hanson CA(1)(2), Resmini M(1),
Sanders IA(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological and Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary University of London,
London E1 4NS, UK.
(2)Microbiology@UCL, University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

The environmental accumulation of plastics worldwide is a consequence of the
durability of the material. Alternative polymers, marketed as biodegradable,
present a potential solution to mitigate their ecological damage. However,
understanding of biodegradability has been hindered by a lack of reproducible
testing methods. We developed a novel method to evaluate the biodegradability of 
plastic samples based on the monitoring of bacterial respiration in aqueous media
via the quantification of CO2 produced, where the only carbon source available is
from the polymer. Rhodococcus rhodochrous and Alcanivorax borkumensis were used
as model organisms for soil and marine systems, respectively. Our results
demonstrate that this approach is reproducible and can be used with a variety of 
plastics, allowing comparison of the relative biodegradability of the different
materials. In the case of low-density polyethylene, the study demonstrated a
clear correlation between the molecular weight of the sample and CO2 released,
taken as a measure of biodegradability.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21041176 
PMCID: PMC7072786
PMID: 32053975 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses or
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript or in the decision to
publish the results.

