
1. Acta Vet Scand. 2020 Sep 4;62(1):48. doi: 10.1186/s13028-020-00547-x.

Microbiological assessment of sheep lymph nodes with lymphadenitis found during
post-mortem examination of slaughtered sheep: implications for
veterinary-sanitary meat control.

Didkowska A(1), Żmuda P(2), Kwiecień E(3), Rzewuska M(3), Klich D(4),
Krajewska-Wędzina M(5), Witkowski L(6), Żychska M(6), Kaczmarkowska A(7),
Orłowska B(7), Anusz K(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Hygiene and Public Health Protection, Institute of
Veterinary Medicine, Warsaw University of Life Sciences "SGGW", Nowoursynowska
159, 02-776, Warsaw, Poland. anna.didkowska@sggw.edu.pl.
(2)University Centre of Veterinary Medicine UJ-UR, Al. Mickiewicza 24/28, 30-059,
Kraków, Poland.
(3)Department of Preclinical Sciences, Institute of Veterinary Medicine Warsaw,
University of Life Sciences-SGGW, Ciszewskiego 8, 02-786, Warsaw, Poland.
(4)Institute of Animal Sciences, University of Life Sciences-SGGW, Ciszewskiego
8, 02-786, Warsaw, Poland.
(5)National Reference Laboratory for Bovine Tuberculosis, Department of
Microbiology, National Veterinary Research Institute, Partyzantow 57, Puławy,
Poland.
(6)Laboratory of Veterinary Epidemiology and Economic, Institute of Veterinary
Medicine, Warsaw University of Life Sciences-SGGW, Nowoursynowska 159c, 02-776,
Warsaw, Poland.
(7)Department of Food Hygiene and Public Health Protection, Institute of
Veterinary Medicine, Warsaw University of Life Sciences "SGGW", Nowoursynowska
159, 02-776, Warsaw, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Microbiological examination of lesions found in slaughtered animals
during meat inspection is an important part of public health protection as such
lesions may be due to zoonotic agents that can be transmitted by meat.
Examination of inflamed lymph nodes also plays a particular important role, as
lymphadenitis may reflect a more widespread infection. Such lesions in sheep are 
mainly caused by pyogenic bacteria but also mycobacteria are occasionally found. 
Meat inspection data from 2017 to 2018 from southern Poland, especially from the 
Małopolska region, indicate that purulent or caseous lymphadenitis involving the 
mediastinal and tracheobronchial lymph nodes (MTLNs) is a common finding. The
primary aim of the current study was to determine the aetiology of these lesions.
Furthermore, it was investigated how presence of lesions was correlated with age 
and grazing strategy of affected sheep.
RESULTS: Post-mortem examination revealed purulent or caseous lymphadenitis in
the MTLNs of 49 out of 284 animals (17.3%). Subsequent microbiological
examination revealed the presence of Corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis (34.7%), 
Streptococcus dysgalactiae subsp. equisimilis (34.7%), Staphylococcus aureus
(8.2%), Enterococcus spp. (2.0%), Trueperella pyogenes (2.0%), and β-haemolytic
strains of Escherichia coli (2.0%). Mycobacterium spp. and Rhodococcus equi were 
not detected. In older sheep, the probability of the presence of purulent or
caseous lymphadenitis was higher than in younger, and the risk was increasing by 
1.5% with each month of life. Sheep grazing locally had 4.5-times greater risk of
having purulent or caseous lymphadenitis than individuals summer grazing in the
mountains.
CONCLUSION: The most common aetiological agents of purulent or caseous
lymphadenitis in the MTLNs of sheep in the Małopolska region were C.
pseudotuberculosis and S. dysgalactiae subsp. equisimilis. Particular attention
during post-mortem examination should be paid to the carcasses of older sheep and
sheep grazing on permanent pastures, as they seem more prone to develop purulent 
or caseous lymphadenitis.

DOI: 10.1186/s13028-020-00547-x 
PMCID: PMC7472580
PMID: 32887621 

