
1. Domest Anim Endocrinol. 2020 Jul 29;74:106531. doi:
10.1016/j.domaniend.2020.106531. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of pituitary pars intermedia dysfunction and Prascend (pergolide tablets)
treatment on endocrine and immune function in horses.

Miller AB(1), Loynachan AT(2), Bush HM(3), Hart KA(4), Barker VD(5),
Campana-Emard AG(5), Grubbs ST(6), Adams AA(5).

Author information: 
(1)M.H. Gluck Equine Research Center, Department of Veterinary Science,
University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA. Electronic address:
ashton.miller@uky.edu.
(2)Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory, Department of Veterinary Science, University
of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA.
(4)Department of Large Animal Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA.
(5)M.H. Gluck Equine Research Center, Department of Veterinary Science,
University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA.
(6)Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health USA, Inc, Duluth, GA, USA.

It remains unclear how pituitary pars intermedia dysfunction (PPID) and pergolide
treatment (Prascend [pergolide tablets]) affect endocrine and immune function in 
horses. To evaluate these effects, blood was collected regularly from 28
university-owned horses (10 Non-PPID, 9 PPID control [PC], and 9 PPID treatment
[PT]) over approximately 15 mo. Pergolide treatment was initiated after Day 0
collections. Analyses included ACTH, insulin, total cortisol, free cortisol,
complete blood counts, plasma myeloperoxidase, and cytokine/receptor gene
expression in basal whole blood and in vitro stimulations (PMA/ionomycin,
heat-inactivated Rhodococcus equi, and heat-inactivated Escherichia coli) of
whole blood and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). The results were
analyzed using a linear mixed model (SAS 9.4) with significance set at P < 0.05. 
Significant group (P = 0.0014) and group-by-time (P = 0.0004) effects were
observed in resting ACTH such that PT horses differed from Non-PPID horses only
at Day 0. PT horses had significantly lower changes in ACTH responses to
thyrotropin-releasing hormone stimulation tests than PC horses at non-fall time
points only, mid-late February 2018 (P = 0.016) and early April 2018 (P =
0.0172). When PT and PC horses did not differ, they were combined before
comparison to Non-PPID horses. No significant group or group-by-time effects were
seen in resting insulin, total cortisol, or free cortisol; however, significant
time effects were observed in these measures. PPID horses had lower absolute
lymphocyte (P = 0.028) and red blood cell (P = 0.0203) counts than Non-PPID
horses. In unstimulated whole blood, PPID horses had increased IL-8 expression
compared with Non-PPID horses (P = 0.0102). In addition, PPID horses had
decreased interferon γ production from PBMCs after stimulation with R. equi (P = 
0.0063) and E. coli (P = 0.0057) and showed increased transforming growth factor 
β expression after E. coli stimulation (P = 0.0399). The main limitations of this
study were a limited sample size and an inability to truly randomize the PPID
horses into treatment groups. Resting ACTH is likely the best choice for
determining successful responses to pergolide. Neither PPID nor pergolide appears
to influence insulin, total cortisol, and free cortisol. As measured, systemic
immune function was altered in PPID horses, and it is likely that these horses
are indeed at increased risk of opportunistic infection. Despite reducing ACTH,
pergolide treatment did not appear to influence immune function.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.domaniend.2020.106531 
PMID: 32942194 

