
1. J Hazard Mater. 2020 May 5;389:121906. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2019.121906. Epub
2019 Dec 16.

Characterization and genome functional analysis of an efficient nitrile-degrading
bacterium, Rhodococcus rhodochrous BX2, to lay the foundation for potential
bioaugmentation for remediation of nitrile-contaminated environments.

An X(1), Cheng Y(2), Miao L(1), Chen X(1), Zang H(1), Li C(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Resources and Environment, Northeast Agricultural University,
Harbin 150030, Heilongjiang, PR China.
(2)College of Science, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, PR China.
(3)College of Resources and Environment, Northeast Agricultural University,
Harbin 150030, Heilongjiang, PR China. Electronic address: chunyanli@neau.edu.cn.

Nitriles are a class of extremely toxic chemicals with extensive applications,
and these compounds pose potential risks to humans and ecosystems. The activated 
sludge isolate Rhodococcus rhodochrous BX2 efficiently metabolizes aliphatic
nitriles. However, the molecular underpinnings of the degradation mechanism of
aliphatic nitriles by BX2 remain unknown, and the metabolic fate of aliphatic
nitriles also has not been elucidated. Here, strain BX2 was capable of completely
mineralizing three aliphatic nitriles. Bioinformatic analysis yielded a deeper
insight into the genetic basis of BX2 for efficient degradation of aliphatic
nitriles and adaptation to harsh environments. Transcriptional, enzyme activity
and metabolite analyses confirmed that the intracellular inducible nitrile
hydratase/amidase pathway is the preferred metabolic pathway. Our findings
provide an in-depth understanding of the environmental fate of aliphatic nitriles
and, most importantly, offer a new perspective on the potential applications of
the genus Rhodococcus in bioremediation and the development of degradation enzyme
resources.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2019.121906 
PMID: 31874764 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare no conflict of interest.

