
1. Molecules. 2020 Jul 2;25(13). pii: E3024. doi: 10.3390/molecules25133024.

Bacterial Biotransformation of Oleic Acid: New Findings on the Formation of
γ-Dodecalactone and 10-Ketostearic Acid in the Culture of Micrococcus luteus.

Boratyński F(1), Szczepańska E(1), De Simeis D(2), Serra S(2), Brenna E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Wroclaw University of Environmental and Life
Sciences, Norwida 25, 50-375 Wrocław, Poland.
(2)Istituto di Scienze e Tecnologie Chimiche "Giulio Natta" (SCITEC)-CNR, Via
Mancinelli 7, I-20131 Milan, Italy.
(3)Dipartimento di Chimica, Materiali ed Ingegneria Chimica "Giulio Natta"
Politecnico di Milano, Via Mancinelli 7, I-20131 Milan, Italy.

Microbial conversion of oleic acid (1) to form value-added industrial products
has gained increasing scientific and economic interest. So far, the production of
natural lactones with flavor and fragrance properties from fatty acids by
non-genetically modified organisms (non-GMO) involves whole cells of bacteria
catalyzing the hydration of unsaturated fatty acids as well as yeast strains
responsible for further β-oxidation processes. Development of a non-GMO process, 
involving a sole strain possessing both enzymatic activities, significantly
lowers the costs of the process and constitutes a better method from the
customers' point of view regarding biosafety issues. Twenty bacteria from the
genus of Bacillus, Comamonas, Dietzia, Gordonia, Micrococcus, Pseudomonas,
Rhodococcus and Streptomyces were screened for oxidative functionalization of
oleic acid (1). Micrococcus luteus PCM525 was selected as the sole strain
catalyzing the one-pot transformation of oleic acid (1) into natural valuable
peach and strawberry-flavored γ-dodecalactone (6) used in the food, beverage,
cosmetics and pharmaceutical industries. Based on the identified products formed 
during the process of biotransformation, we clearly established a pathway showing
that oleic acid (1) is hydrated to 10-hydroxystearic acid (2), then oxidized to
10-ketostearic acid (3), giving 4-ketolauric acid (4) after three cycles of
β-oxidation, which is subsequently reduced and cyclized to γ-dodecalactone (6)
(Scheme 1). Moreover, three other strains (Rhodococcus erythropolis DSM44534,
Rhodococcus ruber PCM2166, Dietzia sp. DSM44016), with high concomitant
activities of oleate hydratase and alcohol dehydrogenase, were identified as
efficient producers of 10-ketostearic acid (3), which can be used in lubricant
and detergent formulations. Considering the prevalence of γ-dodecalactone (6) and
10-ketostearic acid (3) applications and the economic benefits of sustainable
management, microbial bioconversion of oleic acid (1) is an undeniably attractive
approach.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25133024 
PMCID: PMC7411827
PMID: 32630666 

