
1. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2020 Sep 13. doi: 10.1111/lam.13386. [Epub ahead of print]

Reinvestigation of the virulence of Rhodococcus equi isolates from patients with 
and without AIDS.

Takai S(1), Sawada N(1), Nakayama Y(1), Ishizuka S(1), Nakagawa R(1), Kawashima
G(1), Sangkanjanavanich N(1)(2), Sasaki Y(1), Kakuda T(1), Suzuki Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Animal Hygiene, Kitasato University School of Veterinary
Medicine, Towada, Aomori, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Mahanakorn University of Technology, Bangkok, 
Thailand.

Rhodococcus equi emerged as a zoonotic pathogen of human immunodeficiency
virus-infected patients over the last three decades. Two virulence plasmid types 
of R. equi, pVAPA and pVAPB associated with equine and porcine isolates, have
been recognized, and more recently, pVAPN, a novel host-associated virulence
plasmid in R. equi, was found in bovine and caprine isolates. We reinvestigated
39 previously reported isolates of R. equi from patients with and without
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) by detecting vapA, vapB and vapN using 
PCR and plasmid profiling. After excluding one isolate that could not be cultured
from frozen storage, eight isolates carried a virulence plasmid encoding vapA
(pVAPA), 10 carried a virulence plasmid encoding vapB (pVAPB), seven carried a
virulence plasmid encoding vapN (pVAPN) and 13 were negative for those genes. Of 
the 29 isolates from patients with AIDS, 7, 10 and 5 harboured pVAPA, pVAPB and
pVAPN respectively. Among nine isolates from patients without AIDS, one and two
harboured pVAPA and pVAPN respectively. This study demonstrated that
pVAPN-positive R. equi existed in human isolates before 1994 and reaffirmed that 
equine-associated pVAPA-positive, porcine-associated pVAPB-positive and bovine-
or caprine-associated pVAPN-positive R. equi are widely spread globally. Because 
domestic animals might be major sources of human infection, further research is
needed to reveal the prevalence of pVAPN-positive R. equi infection in cattle and
goats.

Â© 2020 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.13386 
PMID: 32920889 

