
1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2020 Sep 28. pii: 201916349. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1916349117. [Epub ahead of print]

Characterization of alkylguaiacol-degrading cytochromes P450 for the biocatalytic
valorization of lignin.

Fetherolf MM(1), Levy-Booth DJ(1), Navas LE(1), Liu J(1), Grigg JC(1), Wilson
A(1), Katahira R(2), Beckham GT(2), Mohn WW(1), Eltis LD(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Life Sciences Institute,
BioProducts Institute, The University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z3,
Canada.
(2)National Bioenergy Center, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO
80401.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Life Sciences Institute,
BioProducts Institute, The University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z3,
Canada; leltis@mail.ubc.ca.

Cytochrome P450 enzymes have tremendous potential as industrial biocatalysts,
including in biological lignin valorization. Here, we describe P450s that
catalyze the O-demethylation of lignin-derived guaiacols with different ring
substitution patterns. Bacterial strains Rhodococcus rhodochrous EP4 and
Rhodococcus jostii RHA1 both utilized alkylguaiacols as sole growth substrates.
Transcriptomics of EP4 grown on 4-propylguaiacol (4PG) revealed the up-regulation
of agcA, encoding a CYP255A1 family P450, and the aph genes, previously shown to 
encode a meta-cleavage pathway responsible for 4-alkylphenol catabolism. The
function of the homologous pathway in RHA1 was confirmed: Deletion mutants of
agcA and aphC, encoding the meta-cleavage alkylcatechol dioxygenase, grew on
guaiacol but not 4PG. By contrast, deletion mutants of gcoA and pcaL, encoding a 
CYP255A2 family P450 and an ortho-cleavage pathway enzyme, respectively, grew on 
4-propylguaiacol but not guaiacol. CYP255A1 from EP4 catalyzed the
O-demethylation of 4-alkylguaiacols to 4-alkylcatechols with the following
apparent specificities (k cat/K M): propyl > ethyl > methyl > guaiacol. This
order largely reflected AgcA's binding affinities for the different guaiacols and
was the inverse of GcoAEP4's specificities. The biocatalytic potential of AgcA
was demonstrated by the ability of EP4 to grow on lignin-derived products
obtained from the reductive catalytic fractionation of corn stover, depleting
alkylguaiacols and alkylphenols. By identifying related P450s with complementary 
specificities for lignin-relevant guaiacols, this study facilitates the design of
these enzymes for biocatalytic applications. We further demonstrated that the
metabolic fate of the guaiacol depends on its substitution pattern, a finding
that has significant implications for engineering biocatalysts to valorize
lignin.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1916349117 
PMID: 32989155 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.

