
1. Chembiochem. 2020 May 16. doi: 10.1002/cbic.202000247. [Epub ahead of print]

Reversal of Regioselectivity in Zinc-Dependent Medium-Chain Alcohol Dehydrogenase
from Rhodococcus erythropolis toward Octanone Derivatives.

Dhoke GV(1), Ensari Y(1)(2), Hacibaloglu DY(1), Gärtner A(1), Ruff AJ(1), Bocola 
M(1), Davari MD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Lehrstuhl für Biotechnologie, RWTH Aachen University, Worringerweg 3, 52074,
Aachen, Germany.
(2)Kafkas University, Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, Department of
Bioengineering, full address?, Kars, Turkey.

The zinc-dependent medium-chain alcohol dehydrogenase from Rhodococcus
erythropolis (ReADH) is one of the most versatile biocatalysts for the
stereoselective reduction of ketones to chiral alcohols. Despite its known broad 
substrate scope, ReADH only accepts carbonyl substrates with either a methyl or
an ethyl group adjacent to the carbonyl moiety; this limits its use in the
synthesis of the chiral alcohols that serve as a building blocks for
pharmaceuticals. Protein engineering to expand the substrate scope of ReADH
toward bulky substitutions next to carbonyl group (ethyl 2-oxo-4-phenylbutyrate) 
opens up new routes in the synthesis of ethyl-2-hydroxy-4-phenylbutanoate, an
important intermediate for anti-hypertension drugs like enalaprilat and
lisinopril. We have performed computer-aided engineering of ReADH toward ethyl
2-oxo-4-phenylbutyrate and octanone derivatives. W296, which is located in the
small binding pocket of ReADH, sterically restricts the access of ethyl
2-oxo-4-phenylbutyrate, octan-3-one or octan-4-one toward the catalytic zinc ion 
and thereby limits ReADH activity. Computational analysis was used to identify
position W296 and site-saturation mutagenesis (SSM) yielded an improved variant
W296A with a 3.6-fold improved activity toward ethyl 2-oxo-4-phenylbutyrate when 
compared to WT ReADH (ReADH W296A: 17.10 U/mg and ReADH WT: 4.7 U/mg). In
addition, the regioselectivity of ReADH W296A is shifted toward octanone
substrates. ReADH W296A has a more than 16-fold increased activity toward
octan-4-one (ReADH W296A: 0.97 U/mg and ReADH WT: 0.06 U/mg) and a more than
30-fold decreased activity toward octan-2-one (ReADH W296A: 0.23 U/mg and ReADH
WT: 7.69 U/mg). Computational and experimental results revealed the role of
position W296 in controlling the substrate scope and regiopreference of ReADH for
a variety of carbonyl substrates.

© 2020 The Authors. Published by Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA.

DOI: 10.1002/cbic.202000247 
PMID: 32415803 

