
1. Braz J Microbiol. 2020 Sep;51(3):1317-1326. doi: 10.1007/s42770-020-00295-0. Epub
2020 May 13.

Effect of rhamnolipid on the physicochemical properties and interaction of
bacteria and fungi.

Hamzah N(1), Kasmuri N(2), Tao W(3), Singhal N(4), Padhye L(4), Swift S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Water Resources and Environmental Systems, Faculty of Civil
Engineering, Universiti Teknologi MARA, 40450, Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Water Resources and Environmental Systems, Faculty of Civil
Engineering, Universiti Teknologi MARA, 40450, Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia.
norhafezahkasmuri@uitm.edu.my.
(3)School of Chemistry and Environmental Engineering, Sichuan University of
Science and Engineering, Zigong, 643000, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Environmental Engineering, Faculty of Civil and Environmental
Engineering, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(5)Department of Molecular Medicine and Pathology, University of Auckland,
Auckland, New Zealand.

Bacterial adhesion on surfaces is an essential initial step in promoting
bacterial mobilization for soil bioremediation process. Modification of the cell 
surface is required to improve the adhesion of bacteria. The modification of
physicochemical properties by rhamnolipid to Pseudomonas putida KT2442,
Rhodococcus erythropolis 3586 and Aspergillus brasiliensis ATCC 16404 strains was
analysed using contact angle measurements. The surface energy and total free
energy of adhesion were calculated to predict the adhesion of both bacteria
strains on the A. brasiliensis surface. The study of bacterial adhesion was
carried out to evaluate experimental value with the theoretical results. Bacteria
and fungi physicochemical properties were modified significantly when treated
with rhamnolipid. The adhesion rate of P. putida improved by 16% with the
addition of rhamnolipid (below 1 CMC), while the increase of rhamnolipid
concentration beyond 1 CMC did not further enhance the bacterial adhesion. The
addition of rhamnolipid did not affect the adhesion of R. erythropolis. A good
relationship has been obtained in which water contact angle and surface energy of
fungal surfaces are the major factors contributing to the bacterial adhesion. The
adhesion is mainly driven by acid-base interaction. This finding provides insight
to the role of physicochemical properties in controlling the bacterial adhesion
on the fungal surface to enhance bacteria transport in soil bioremediation.

DOI: 10.1007/s42770-020-00295-0 
PMCID: PMC7455663 [Available on 2021-05-13]
PMID: 32399689 

