
1. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Jun 9;17(11). pii: E4106. doi:
10.3390/ijerph17114106.

Intensification of Ex Situ Bioremediation of Soils Polluted with Used Lubricant
Oils: A Comparison of Biostimulation and Bioaugmentation with a Special Focus on 
the Type and Size of the Inoculum.

Bodor A(1)(2)(3), Petrovszki P(1), Erdeiné Kis Á(1)(3), Vincze GE(1)(4), Laczi
K(1), Bounedjoum N(1)(2), Szilágyi Á(1), Szalontai B(3), Feigl G(5), Kovács
KL(1)(6), Rákhely G(1)(2)(3), Perei K(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, University of Szeged, H-6726 Szeged, Hungary.
(2)Institute of Environmental and Technological Sciences, University of Szeged,
H-6726 Szeged, Hungary.
(3)Institute of Biophysics, Biological Research Centre, H-6726 Szeged, Hungary.
(4)Doctoral School of Environmental Sciences, University of Szeged, H-6720
Szeged, Hungary.
(5)Department of Plant Biology, University of Szeged, H-6726 Szeged, Hungary.
(6)Department of Oral Biology and Experimental Dental Research, University of
Szeged, H-6720 Szeged, Hungary.

Used lubricant oils (ULOs) strongly bind to soil particles and cause persistent
pollution. In this study, soil microcosm experiments were conducted to model the 
ex situ bioremediation of a long term ULO-polluted area. Biostimulation and
various inoculation levels of bioaugmentation were applied to determine the
efficacy of total petrol hydrocarbon (TPH) removal. ULO-contaminated soil
microcosms were monitored for microbial respiration, colony-forming units (CFUs) 
and TPH bioconversion. Biostimulation with inorganic nutrients was responsible
for 22% of ULO removal after 40 days. Bioaugmentation using two
hydrocarbon-degrader strains: Rhodococcus quingshengii KAG C and Rhodococcus
erythropolis PR4 at a small inoculum size (107 CFUs g-1 soil), reduced initial
TPH concentration by 24% and 29%, respectively; the application of a higher
inoculum size (109 CFUs g-1 soil) led to 41% and 32% bioconversion, respectively.
After 20 days, all augmented CFUs decreased to the same level as measured in the 
biostimulated cases, substantiating the challenge for the newly introduced
hydrocarbon-degrading strains to cope with environmental stressors. Our results
not only highlight that an increased number of degrader cells does not always
correlate with enhanced TPH bioconversion, but they also indicate that
biostimulation might be an economical solution to promote ULO biodegradation in
long term contaminated soils.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17114106 
PMCID: PMC7312492
PMID: 32526873 

