
1. J Biol Inorg Chem. 2020 Sep;25(6):903-911. doi: 10.1007/s00775-020-01806-y. Epub 
2020 Aug 18.

The Fe-type nitrile hydratase from Rhodococcus equi TG328-2 forms an
alpha-activator protein complex.

Lankathilaka KPW(1), Bennett B(2), Holz RC(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Marquette University, P.O. Box 1881, Milwaukee, WI,
53201-1881, USA.
(2)Department of Physics, Marquette University, 540 N. 15th St, Milwaukee, WI,
53233, USA.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Marquette University, P.O. Box 1881, Milwaukee, WI,
53201-1881, USA. rholz@mines.edu.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Colorado School of Mines, Golden, CO, 80401, USA.
rholz@mines.edu.

An Fe-type nitrile hydratase α(ɛ) protein complex from Rhodococcus equi TG328-2
(ReNHase) was discovered and shown by MALDI-TOF to form a 1:1 complex. As
isolated, the α(ɛ) protein complex exhibited no detectable NHase activity even in
the presence of iron. The addition of the ReNHase β-subunit and Fe(II) to the
ReNHase apo-α(ε) complex, provided an enzyme with a kcat value of 0.7 ± 0.1 s-1
using acrylonitrile as the substrate, indicating that the β-subunit is important 
for the reconstitution of NHase activity. The addition of the reducing agent TCEP
enhanced the activity by more than 50% (kcat of 1.7 ± 0.2 s-1). As the (ɛ)
protein was previously shown to bind and hydrolyze GTP, the addition of GTP to
the as-purified α(ε) complex provided a kcat value of 1.1 ± 0.2 s-1, in the
presence of Fe(II) and β-subunit. The addition of TCEP to this combination
further enhanced the activity (kcat of 2.1 ± 0.3 s-1). Apo α-subunit was
expressed in purified and added to the (ɛ) protein and β-subunits plus Fe(II) and
TCEP resulting in a kcat value of 0.7 ± 0.2 s-1 suggesting an α(ɛ) complex can
form in vitro. The addition of GTP to this sample increased the observed rate of 
nitrile hydration by ~ 30%, while TCEP free samples exhibited no activity. Taken 
together, these data provide insight into the role of the (ɛ) protein and the
newly discovered α(ɛ) complex in NHase metallocenter assembly.

DOI: 10.1007/s00775-020-01806-y 
PMID: 32812122 

