
1. Case Rep Infect Dis. 2020 Apr 6;2020:3131024. doi: 10.1155/2020/3131024.
eCollection 2020.

Pulmonary Malakoplakia by Rhodococcus equi in an HIV-Infected Patient in Mexico: 
A Case Report.

Ahumada VH(1), Ortiz-Monasterio I(1), Hernandez JL(1), Peralta AB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Research of Infectious Diseases, Instituto Nacional de
Enfermedades Respiratorias Ismael Cosio Villegas, Mexico City, Mexico.

Background: Rhodococcus equi-related pulmonary malakoplakia is a rare condition
with few reported cases; hereby, we present a case associated with advanced human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, and thus far to our knowledge, the first 
report in Mexico. It is estimated that approximately 10% of the infections occur 
in immunocompetent patients, whereas the rest are immune deficient, targeting
virtually any organ. Histologically, malakoplakia is characterized by the buildup
of infiltrated inflammatory tissue as a consequence of the gathering of
histiocytes embedded with concentric inclusions. The diagnosis relies on the
cultures and the susceptibility testing as well as the pathologic findings
compatible with the disease. Case Presentation. We present a 25-year-old male
patient with persistent nonproductive cough for over a year and with weight loss,
who comes to the emergency department with recent fever, swollen and tender lymph
nodes, and hemoptysis. The patient gets diagnosed and treated for Rhodococcus
equi-related pulmonary malakoplakia.
Conclusion: Knowing the involvement of Rhodococcus in HIV is fundamental for the 
diagnosis and optimal treatment, which although unknown, a combination of
antibiotics with intracellular penetration, on-time resection, and a proper
immune reconstitution represents the best approach. Prognosis varies with
mortality rates from 34% to 54%.

Copyright Â© 2020 Victor H. Ahumada et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/3131024 
PMCID: PMC7166268
PMID: 32318299 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest to manifest, neither financial nor nonfinancial.

