
1. Comp Immunol Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 Aug 30;73:101540. doi:
10.1016/j.cimid.2020.101540. [Epub ahead of print]

Serological epidemiological surveillance for vapN-harboring Rhodococcus equi
infection in goats.

Suzuki Y(1), Takahashi K(2), Takase F(2), Sawada N(2), Nakao S(3), Toda A(4),
Sasaki Y(2), Kakuda T(2), Takai S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Animal Hygiene, Kitasato University School of Veterinary
Medicine, Higashi 23-35-1, Towada, Aomori, 034-8628, Japan. Electronic address:
ysuzuki@vmas.kitasato-u.ac.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Animal Hygiene, Kitasato University School of Veterinary
Medicine, Higashi 23-35-1, Towada, Aomori, 034-8628, Japan.
(3)Okinawa Prefectural Institute of Animal Health, 3-1 Kanekadan, Uruma, Okinawa,
904-2241, Japan.
(4)Okinawa Yaeyama Livestock Hygiene Service Center, 1-2 Miyara, Ishigaki,
Okinawa, 907-0243, Japan.

Rhodococcus equi causes suppurative pneumonia in foals aged 1-3 months; moreover,
it has emerged as a pathogenic cause of zoonotic diseases. After the initial
report of the ruminant-pathogenic factor VapN encoded by the novel virulence
plasmid pVAPN, several reports have described ruminant infections caused by
vapN-harboring R. equi. Herein, we conducted a serological epidemiological
surveillance in goats at a breeding farm (Farm A) and characterized the
vapN-harboring R. equi isolates from this farm. First, we established a simple
screening enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using recombinant glutathione
S-transferase-tagged VapN as an immobilized antigen. This method revealed that
the VapN antibody titers were elevated in 12 of 42 goats. Subsequently, we
attempted to isolate R. equi from the goat feces and soil of Farm A.
choE+/vapN+R. equi was isolated from the feces of Goat No. 27 and a soil sample
near the shed. The pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) patterns of five
vapN-harboring R. equi strains isolated from Farm A in 2013 and 2019 were
investigated and found to be the same except for the strain (OKI2019F1). However,
no difference was observed in VapN expression and growth in macrophages among
these vapN-harboring R. equi isolates. Our results revealed that some goats had
histories of vapN-harboring R. equi infections, and two genomic types of
vapN-harboring R. equi were found in isolates from Farm A. Ruminant-specific
(pVAPN-carrying) R. equi might be an unrecognized pathogen in Japan and further
studies are required to determine its prevalence and distribution.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cimid.2020.101540 
PMID: 32911379 

