
1. Environ Pollut. 2020 Aug;263(Pt B):114061. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.114061.
Epub 2020 Jan 23.

Landfill leachate treatment through the combination of genetically engineered
bacteria Rhodococcus erythropolis expressing Nirs and AMO and membrane filtration
processes.

Bai F(1), Tian H(2), Ma J(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water and Environment, Harbin Institute of
Technology, Harbin, Heilongjiang, 150090, PR China; Lubin Environmental
Protection Equipment (Shanghai) Co., Ltd, Shanghai, PR China.
(2)School of Life Science, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, 150001, PR
China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Urban Water and Environment, Harbin Institute of
Technology, Harbin, Heilongjiang, 150090, PR China. Electronic address:
tcbfl@163.com.

This study developed a process of genetically engineered bacteria Rhodococcus
erythropolis expressing Nirs and AMO combined with membrane bioreactor (MBR),
nanofiltration (NF) and reverse osmosis (RO) membrane (pRho-NA-MNR) for advanced 
treatment of landfill leachate. Results demonstrated that pRho-NA-MNR presented
higher removal rate of chemical oxygen demand (COD), biological oxygen demand
(BOD), ammonia nitrogen (N-NH4), total nitrogen (TN) and total organic carbon
(TOC) than activated sludge (AS-MNR) system. Administration of pRho-NA increased 
nitrification by converting N-NH4 to nitrite (N-NO2) and Nitrate (N-NO3), and
promoting denitrification by converting N-NO2 to nitrogen (N2) in the landfill
leachate treatment, promoted the pH control, increased sludge activity and
effluent yield, shortened phase length adaptation under alternating
aerobic-anoxic conditions. pRho-NA increased the nitration and denitrifying rate 
in the aerobic and anaerobic stage in the system by increasing Cyt cd1 and Cyt c 
expression in the activated sludge. Nitrogen removal by nitrification and
denitrification was positively correlated to the concentration of Nirs and AMO
expression. Treatment with pRho-NA promoted pollutant removal efficiency of
membrane bioreactor, nanofiltration and reverse osmosis membrane processes in
landfill leachate. In conclusion, data suggest that pRho-NA-MNR facilitates the
formation of granular sludge and enhances comparable removal of nitrogen and
organic compounds, indicating the practice of this process should be considered
in landfill leachate treatment system.

Copyright Â© 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2020.114061 
PMID: 32268229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no conflicts of interest.

