
1. Mol Med Rep. 2020 Oct;22(4):2695-2704. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2020.11351. Epub 2020 Jul
23.

Roseburia intestinalis‑derived flagellin ameliorates colitis by targeting
miR‑223‑3p‑mediated activation of NLRP3 inflammasome and pyroptosis.

Wu X(1), Pan S(1), Luo W(1), Shen Z(1), Meng X(1), Xiao M(1), Tan B(1), Nie K(1),
Tong T(1), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South
University, Changsha, Hunan 410013, P.R. China.

Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), which is a
chronic, relapsing condition associated with the disorder of gut microbial
communities. A previous study reported that levels of Roseburia intestinalis
(R.I), a butyrate‑producing bacterium, are significantly decreased in patients
with IBD and exert an anti‑inflammatory function in dextran sulfate sodium
(DSS)‑induced colitis. However, the role of R.I flagellin in UC and its
underlying molecular mechanism are not yet fully understood. Therefore, a
DSS‑induced colitis model in C57Bl/6 mice and the LPS/ATP‑induced THP‑1
macrophages were treated with R.I flagellin, which were used to investigate the
anti‑inflammatory effects of R.I flagellin. The results demonstrated that R.I
flagellin decreased colitis‑associated disease activity index, colonic shortening
and the pathological damage of the colon tissues in murine colitis models.
Furthermore, R.I flagellin decreased the serum levels of proinflammatory
cytokines and inhibited activation of the nucleotide‑binding oligomerization
segment‑like receptor family 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome in murine colitis. R.I
flagellin was also demonstrated to decrease the Gasdermin D to yield the
N‑terminal fragment membrane pore and inhibit inflammasome‑triggered pyroptosis. 
In vitro analysis indicated that microRNA (miR)‑223‑3p was involved in the
regulation of R.I flagellin on NLRP3 inflammasome activation. Taken together, the
results of the present study demonstrated that R.I flagellin inhibited activation
of the NLRP3 inflammasome and pyroptosis via miR‑223‑3p/NLRP3 signaling in
macrophages, suggesting that R.I flagellin may be used as a novel probiotic
product for the treatment of UC.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2020.11351 
PMCID: PMC7453595
PMID: 32700754 

