
1. Front Immunol. 2020 Jan 9;10:2976. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.02976. eCollection
2019.

Microbiota Induced Changes in the Immune Response in Pregnant Mice.

Faas MM(1), Liu Y(1), Borghuis T(1), van Loo-Bouwman CA(2), Harmsen H(3), de Vos 
P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Immunoendocrinology, Division of Medical Biology, Department of Pathology and 
Medical Biology, University Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen,
Groningen, Netherlands.
(2)Yili Innovation Center Europe B.V., Wageningen, Netherlands.
(3)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Groningen, University
Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.

Pregnancy is associated with adaptations of the immune response and with changes 
in the gutmicrobiota. We hypothesized the gut microbiota are involved in inducing
(part of) the immunological adaptations during pregnancy. To test this
hypothesis, we collected feces from pregnant conventional mice before and during 
pregnancy (days 7, 14, and 18) and microbiota were measured using 16S RNA
sequencing. At day 18, mice were sacrificed and splenic (various Th cell
populations) and blood immune cells (monocyte subsets) were measured by flow
cytometry. The data were compared with splenic and blood immune cell populations 
from pregnant (day 18) germfree mice and non-pregnant conventional and germfree
mice. Finally, the abundances of the individual gut bacteria in the microbiota of
each conventional pregnant mouse were correlated to the parameters of the immune 
response of the same mouse. The microbiota of conventional mice were
significantly different at the end of pregnancy (day 18) as compared with
pre-pregnancy (Permanova, p < 0.05). The Shannon index was decreased and the
Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio was increased (Friedman followed by Dunn's test, p
< 0.05), while abundances of various species (such as Allobaculum stercoricanis, 
Barnesiella intestihominis, and Roseburia faecis) were significantly different at
day 18 compared with pre-pregnancy. In pregnant conventional mice, the percentage
of Th1 cells was decreased, while the percentages of Treg cells and Th2 cells
were or tended to be increased vs. non-pregnant mice. In germfree mice, only the 
percentage of Th1 cells was decreased in pregnant vs. non-pregnant mice, with no 
effect of pregnancy on Treg and Th2 cells. The percentages of monocyte subsets
were affected by pregnancy similarly in conventional and germfree mice. However, 
the activation status of monocytes (expression of CD80 and MHCII) was affected by
pregnancy mainly in conventional mice, and not in germfree mice. Correlation
(Spearman's coefficient) of pregnancy affected microbiota with pregnancy affected
immune cells, i.e., immune cells that were only affected differently in
conventional mice and germfree mice, showed 4 clusters of bacteria and 4 clusters
of immune cells, some of these clusters were correlated with each other. For
instance, the microbiota in cluster 1 and 2 (in which there were various short
chain fatty acid producing microbiota) are positively correlated with immune
cells in cluster B, containing Treg cells and Th2 cells. Microbiota and immune
cells are affected by pregnancy in mice. The different immunological adaptations 
to pregnancy between conventional and germfree mice, such as the increase in Treg
and tendency to an increase in Th2 cells in conventional pregnant mice only, may 
suggest that the microbiota may play a role in adapting the maternal immune
response to pregnancy.

Copyright Â© 2020 Faas, Liu, Borghuis, van Loo-Bouwman, Harmsen and de Vos.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.02976 
PMCID: PMC6962187
PMID: 31998293 

