
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Sep;103(9):7730-7741. doi: 10.3168/jds.2020-18153. Epub 2020
Jul 16.

Computer-aided search for a cold-active cellobiose 2-epimerase.

Chen Q(1), Xiao Y(1), Zhang W(1), Stressler T(2), Fischer L(2), Jiang B(3), Mu
W(4).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University,
Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214122, China.
(2)University of Hohenheim, Institute of Food Science and Biotechnology,
Department of Biotechnology and Enzyme Science, 70599 Stuttgart, Germany.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University,
Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214122, China; International Joint Laboratory on Food Safety,
Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University,
Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214122, China; International Joint Laboratory on Food Safety,
Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122, China. Electronic address:
wmmu@jiangnan.edu.cn.

Cellobiose 2-epimerase (CE) is a promising industrial enzyme that can catalyze
bioconversion of lactose to its high-value derivatives, namely epilactose and
lactulose. A need exists in the dairy industry to catalyze lactose bioconversions
at low temperatures to avoid microbial growth. We focused on the discovery of
cold-active CE in this study. A genome mining method based on computational
prediction was used to screen the potential genes encoding cold-active enzymes.
The CE-encoding gene from Roseburia intestinalis, with a predicted high
structural flexibility, was expressed heterologously in Escherichia coli. The
catalytic property of the recombinant enzyme was extensively studied. The optimum
temperature and pH of the enzyme were 45°C and 7.0, respectively. The specific
activity of this enzyme to catalyze conversion of lactose to epilactose was
measured to be 77.3 ± 1.6 U/mg. The kinetic parameters, including turnover number
(kcat), Michaelis constant (Km), and catalytic efficiency (kcat/Km) using lactose
as a substrate were 117.0 ± 7.7 s-1, 429.9 ± 57.3 mM, and 0.27 mM-1s-1,
respectively. In situ production of epilactose was carried out at 8°C: 20.9% of
68.4 g/L lactose was converted into epilactose in 4 h using 0.02 mg/mL (1.5 U/mL,
measured at 45°C) of recombinant enzyme. The enzyme discovered by this in silico 
method is suitable for low-temperature applications.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-18153 
PMID: 32684457 

