
1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2020 Mar 31;117(13):7122-7130. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1915376117. Epub 2020 Mar 13.

A pair of esterases from a commensal gut bacterium remove acetylations from all
positions on complex β-mannans.

Michalak L(1), La Rosa SL(1), Leivers S(1), Lindstad LJ(1), Røhr ÅK(1), Lillelund
Aachmann F(2), Westereng B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, Norwegian University of 
Life Sciences, 1432 Ås, Norway.
(2)The Norwegian Biopolymer Laboratory, Department of Biotechnology and Food
Science, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7491 Trondheim,
Norway.
(3)Faculty of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, Norwegian University of 
Life Sciences, 1432 Ås, Norway; bjorge.westereng@nmbu.no.

β-mannans and xylans are important components of the plant cell wall and they are
acetylated to be protected from degradation by glycoside hydrolases. β-mannans
are widely present in human and animal diets as fiber from leguminous plants and 
as thickeners and stabilizers in processed foods. There are many fully
characterized acetylxylan esterases (AcXEs); however, the enzymes deacetylating
mannans are less understood. Here we present two carbohydrate esterases, RiCE2
and RiCE17, from the Firmicute Roseburia intestinalis, which together deacetylate
complex galactoglucomannan (GGM). The three-dimensional (3D) structure of RiCE17 
with a mannopentaose in the active site shows that the CBM35 domain of RiCE17
forms a confined complex, where the axially oriented C2-hydroxyl of a mannose
residue points toward the Ser41 of the catalytic triad. Cavities on the RiCE17
surface may accept galactosylations at the C6 positions of mannose adjacent to
the mannose residue being deacetylated (subsite -1 and +1). In-depth
characterization of the two enzymes using time-resolved NMR, high-performance
liquid chromatography (HPLC), and mass spectrometry demonstrates that they work
in a complementary manner. RiCE17 exclusively removes the axially oriented
2-O-acetylations on any mannose residue in an oligosaccharide, including double
acetylated mannoses, while the RiCE2 is active on 3-O-, 4-O-, and
6-O-acetylations. Activity of RiCE2 is dependent on RiCE17 removing
2-O-acetylations from double acetylated mannose. Furthermore, transacetylation of
oligosaccharides with the 2-O-specific RiCE17 provided insight into how
temperature and pH affects acetyl migration on manno-oligosaccharides.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1915376117 
PMCID: PMC7132267
PMID: 32170022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.

