
1. Food Sci Nutr. 2020 Apr 5;8(5):2512-2523. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.1545. eCollection
2020 May.

Eggshell membrane powder lowers plasma triglyceride and liver total cholesterol
by modulating gut microbiota and accelerating lipid metabolism in high-fat
diet-fed mice.

Ramli NS(1)(2), Jia H(1), Sekine A(1), Lyu W(1), Furukawa K(1), Saito K(1),
Hasebe Y(3), Kato H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Agricultural and Life Sciences The University of Tokyo
Tokyo Japan.
(2)Department of Food Science, Faculty of Food Science and Technology Universiti 
Putra Malaysia Serdang Malaysia.
(3)ALMADO Inc. Tokyo Japan.

Obesity is a major global lifestyle disorder associated with gut microbiota. The 
health benefits of eggshell membrane (ESM) have been shown in previous reports,
particularly as regards gut microbiota composition. Here, we investigated whether
ESM improves lipid metabolism and alters gut microbiota in high-fat diet-fed
mice. A total of 20 C57BL/6J mice aged 6 weeks were given either a control diet
(CON), high-fat diet (HFD), or high-fat diet + 8% ESM powder (HESM) for 20 weeks.
ESM supplementation in HFD-fed mice reduced plasma triglycerides (TG) and liver
total cholesterol (TC) and upregulated the expression of lipid metabolism genes
carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A and suppressor of cytokine signaling 2.
Microbiota analysis showed increased relative abundance of the anti-obesity
bacterium, Lactobacillus reuteri, at 4, 12, and 16 weeks and reduced the
abundance of inflammation-related Blautia hydrogenotrophica, Roseburia faecis,
and Ruminococcus callidus at 12 and 20 weeks. ESM-supplemented mice had increased
cecal isobutyrate, negatively correlated with B. hydrogenotrophica and
Parabacteroides goldsteinii abundance. The results indicate that ESM
supplementation in HFD-fed mice reduced plasma TG and liver TC, possibly through 
alteration of lipid metabolism gene expression and gut microbiota composition,
suggesting that ESM may be effective in obesity management.

© 2020 The Authors. Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.1545 
PMCID: PMC7215208
PMID: 32405407 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared no conflict of
interest.

