
1. Front Oncol. 2020 Aug 12;10:1418. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2020.01418. eCollection 2020.

Bacterial Alterations in Post-Cholecystectomy Patients Are Associated With
Colorectal Cancer.

Ren X(1)(2), Xu J(1)(2)(3), Zhang Y(1)(2), Chen G(1)(2), Zhang Y(1)(2), Huang
Q(1)(2), Liu Y(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Peking University People's Hospital, Beijing, 
China.
(2)Clinical Center of Immune-Mediated Digestive Diseases, Peking University
People's Hospital, Beijing, China.
(3)Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology & Central Laboratory, Peking
University People's Hospital, Beijing, China.

Background: Although increasing evidences showed a correlation between
cholecystectomy and the prevalence rate of colorectal cancer (CRC), and shed
light on gut microbiota in colorectal pathogenesis, only a few studies focused on
microbial alterations after cholecystectomy, and its sequent role in
carcinogenesis and progression of CRC has not been reported. Thus, we aimed to
investigate the bacterial alterations and tried to clarify their clinical
significance. Methods: 104 subjects were enrolled and divided into
post-cholecystectomy patients (PC, n = 52) and healthy controls (HC, n = 52). To 
investigate the bacterial role in carcinogenesis, PC patients were further
separated into preCA_CRC (patients with precancerous lesions and/or CRC, n = 9)
and non-CA (patients without precancerous lesions and CRC, n = 43) based on the
histopathology. Qualified stool samples were collected for 16S rRNA gene
sequencing to analyze the bacterial profile. Results: Our data showed noteworthy 
compositional and abundant alterations of bacterial microbiota in PC patients,
characterized as Bacteroides ovatus, Prevotella copri, and Fusobacterium varium
remarkably increased; Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Roseburia faecis, and
Bifidobacterium adolescentis significantly decreased. Additionally, the duration 
after cholecystectomy was the critical factor that affected bacterial
composition. Machine learning-based analysis showed a pivotal role of Megamonas
funiformis in discriminating PC from HC subjects and involving in the progression
of CRC. Conclusions: The bacterial dysbiosis may associate with CRC in PC
patients, and the duration after cholecystectomy was highlighted as an important 
factor. Altered bacterial microbiota was likely to play a pivotal role in
related-disease in the long-term follow-up of PC patients.

Copyright Â© 2020 Ren, Xu, Zhang, Chen, Zhang, Huang and Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2020.01418 
PMCID: PMC7434860
PMID: 32903396 

