
1. Infect Drug Resist. 2020 Jun 26;13:2001-2010. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S252485.
eCollection 2020.

Antimicrobial Susceptibility of Mycobacterium abscessus Complex Clinical Isolates
from a Chinese Tertiary Hospital.

Guo Y(1)(2), Cao X(3), Yu J(4), Zhan Q(3), Yang J(1), Wu X(1), Wan B(1), Liu
Y(1), Yu F(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Tongji
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200082, People's Republic of China.
(2)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Tuberculosis, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Tongji
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200082, People's Republic of China.
(3)Jiangxi Provincial Key Laboratory of Medicine, Clinical Laboratory of the
Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang 330000, People's
Republic of China.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou 325000,
People's Republic of China.

Introduction: Mycobacterium abscessus complex (MABC) is a group of important
infectious agents that are highly associated with drug resistance, and antibiotic
treatment is usually ineffective. This study investigated the characteristics of 
antimicrobial susceptibility of MABC isolates and the synergy between certain
β-lactam combinations against MABC infection.
Methods: We collected 129 MABC isolates from patients with lower respiratory
tract infections and categorized them into three subspecies. The minimum
inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of 15 antimicrobials for the MABC isolates were 
determined using commercial Sensititre RAPMYCOI MIC plates and the broth
microdilution method, as recommended in the CLSI (M24-A2). In addition, the MICs 
of imipenem, alone and with ceftazidime and/or avibactam, were assessed in vitro 
for all isolates. The erm(41) and rrl genes were also sequenced.
Results: The MABC isolates exhibited >80% resistance to 11 of the 15
antimicrobials. Regarding the remaining four antimicrobials, the isolates were
least resistant to tigecycline (12.4%) and amikacin (3.9%), and only partially
resistant to two cefoxitin (39.5%) and imipenem (40.3%). Compared with M.
massiliense isolates, M. abscessus and M. bolletii isolates were more resistant
to amikacin and imipenem, whereas M. abscessus was significantly less resistant
to tigecycline relative to M. massiliense and M. bolletii isolates. The
clarithromycin inducible resistance rate was 68.4% and 74.3% among M. bolletii
and M. abscessus isolates. Furthermore, 88.7% of the M. abscessus isolates
carried a T at position 28 of erm(41), which is associated with inducible
clarithromycin resistance. In addition, compared to imipenem with avibactam only,
the MIC50 and MIC90values of imipenem after adding ceftazidime plus avibactam
were decreased fourfold.
Conclusion: The antimicrobial resistance rates and the characteristics of the
erm(41) gene associated with inducible clarithromycin resistance were different
among the three MABC subspecies. There was also synergy between imipenem and
100μg/mL ceftazidime against MABC isolates.

© 2020 Guo et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S252485 
PMCID: PMC7326206
PMID: 32617011 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest.

