
1. Animals (Basel). 2019 Nov 22;9(12). pii: E1019. doi: 10.3390/ani9121019.

Relations of Ruminal Fermentation Parameters and Microbial Matters to Odd- and
Branched-Chain Fatty Acids in Rumen Fluid of Dairy Cows at Different Milk Stages.

Liu K(1)(2), Li Y(2), Luo G(2)(3), Xin H(2), Zhang Y(2), Li G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Special Economic Animal and Plant Science, Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, Changchun 130112, China.
(2)Department of Animal Science and Technology, Northeast Agricultural
University, Harbin 150030, China.
(3)Zhejiang NHU Company Ltd. Shaoxing 312500, China.

The purpose of this research was to evaluate whether relationships exist between 
odd- and branched-chain fatty acids (OBCFAs) originating from milk fat and the
corresponding data of ruminal fermentation parameters, microbial populations, and
base contents that were used to mark microbial protein in rumen. Nine lactating
Holstein dairy cows with similar body weights and parity were selected in this
study, and the samples of rumen and milk were collected at the early, middle, and
late stages, respectively. The rumen and milk samples were collected over three
consecutive days from each cow, and the ruminal and milk OBCFA profiles, ruminal 
fermentation parameters, bacterial populations, and base contents were measured. 
The results showed that the concentrations of OBCFAs, with the exception of C11:0
and C15:0, were significantly different between milk and rumen (p < 0.05). The
concentrations of anteiso-fatty acids in milk were higher than those in rumen,
and the contents of linear odd-chain fatty acids were higher than those of
branched-chain fatty acids in both milk and rumen. Significant relationships that
existed between the concentrations of C11:0, iso-C15:0, anteiso-C15:0, C15:0, and
anteiso-C17:0 in rumen and milk (p < 0.05). The total OBCFA content in milk was
positively related to the acetate molar proportion but negatively correlated with
isoacid contents (p < 0.05). The populations of Ruminococcus albus, R.
flavefacients, and Eubacterium ruminantium were significantly related to milk
C13:0 contents (p < 0.05). The adenine/N ratio was negatively related to milk
OBCFA content (p < 0.05) but positively associated with the iso-C15:0/iso-C17:0
ratio (p < 0.05). Milk OBCFAs were significantly correlated with ruminal
fermentation parameters, ruminal bacterial populations, and base contents. Milk
OBCFAs had the potential to predict microbial nitrogen flow, and the prediction
equations for ruminal microbial nitrogen flow were established for OBCFAs in
dairy milk.

DOI: 10.3390/ani9121019 
PMCID: PMC6941105
PMID: 31766741 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to
publish the results.

