
1. Biomed Res Int. 2020 Mar 3;2020:3482692. doi: 10.1155/2020/3482692. eCollection
2020.

Characteristics and Functions of the Rumen Microbial Community of Cattle-Yak at
Different Ages.

Sha Y(1), Hu J(1), Shi B(1), Dingkao R(2), Wang J(1), Li S(1), Zhang W(1), Luo
Y(1), Liu X(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology/Gansu Key Laboratory of Herbivorous
Animal Biotechnology, Gansu Agricultural University, Lanzhou 730070, China.
(2)Gannan Institute of Animal Husbandry Science, Hezuo 747000, China.

A cattle-yak, which is a hybrid between a yak (Bos grunniens) and cattle (Bos
taurus), is an important livestock animal, but basic questions regarding its
physiology and environmental adaptation remain unanswered. To address this issue,
the present study examined the species composition and functional characteristics
of rumen microorganisms in the cattle-yak of different ages (2 and 3 years old)
by metagenomic analysis. We found that rumen microbial community composition was 
similar at the two ages. Firmicutes, Fibrobacteres, Euryarchaeota, Bacteroidetes,
and Proteobacteria were the predominant phyla, with Firmicutes accounting for the
highest percentage of bacteria in 2-year-old (48%) and 3-year-old (46%) animals. 
Bacterial species involved in lignocellulose degradation were detected in the
rumen of adult cattle-yaks including Ruminococcus flavefaciens, Ruminococcus
albus, Fibrobacter succinogenes, and Prevotella ruminicola, with F. succinogenes 
being the most abundant. A total of 145,489 genes were annotated according to the
Carbohydrate-active Enzyme database, which identified glycoside hydrolases as the
most highly represented enzyme family. Further functional annotation revealed
specific microflora and genes in the adult rumen that are potentially related to 
plateau adaptability. These results could explain the heterosis of the cattle-yak
and provide insight into mechanisms of physiologic adaptation in plateau animals.

Copyright Â© 2020 Yuzhu Sha et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/3482692 
PMCID: PMC7073488
PMID: 32190661 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

