
1. Br J Nutr. 2020 May 28;123(10):1109-1116. doi: 10.1017/S0007114520000331. Epub
2020 Jan 29.

Effects of rumen-protected folic acid and betaine supplementation on growth
performance, nutrient digestion, rumen fermentation and blood metabolites in
Angus bulls.

Wang C(1), Liu C(1), Zhang GW(1), Du HS(1), Wu ZZ(1), Liu Q(1), Guo G(1), Huo
WJ(1), Zhang J(1), Pei CX(1), Chen L(1), Zhang SL(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Shanxi Agricultural
University, Taigu, Shanxi Province030801, People's Republic of China.

This study evaluated the effects of rumen-protected folic acid (RPFA) and betaine
(BT) on growth performance, nutrient digestion and blood metabolites in bulls.
Forty-eight Angus bulls were blocked by body weight and randomly assigned to four
treatments in a 2 × 2 factorial design. BT of 0 or 0·6 g/kg DM was supplemented
to diet without or with the addition of 6 mg/kg DM of folic acid from RPFA,
respectively. Average daily gain increased by 25·2 and 6·29 % for addition of BT 
without RPFA and with RPFA, respectively. Digestibility and ruminal total
volatile fatty acids of neutral-detergent fibre and acid-detergent fibre
increased, feed conversion ratio and blood folate decreased with the addition of 
BT without RPFA, but these parameters were unchanged with BT addition in diet
with RPFA. Digestibility of DM, organic matter and crude protein as well as
acetate:propionate ratio increased with RPFA or BT addition. Ruminal ammonia-N
decreased with RPFA addition. Activity of carboxymethyl cellulase, cellobiase,
xylanase, pectinase and protease as well as population of total bacteria,
protozoa, Fibrobacter succinogenes and Ruminobacter amylophilus increased with
RPFA or BT addition. Laccase activity and total fungi, Ruminococcus flavefaciens 
and Prevotella ruminicola population increased with RPFA addition, whereas
Ruminococcus albus population increased with BT addition. Blood glucose, total
protein, albumin, growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor-1 increased with 
RPFA addition. Addition of RPFA or BT decreased blood homocysteine. The results
indicated that addition of BT stimulated growth and nutrient digestion in bulls
only when RPFA was not supplemented.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114520000331 
PMID: 31992377 

