
1. Gut Microbes. 2020 Nov 9;12(1):1788898. doi: 10.1080/19490976.2020.1788898. Epub 
2020 Jul 20.

TH1 cell-inducing Escherichia coli strain identified from the small intestinal
mucosa of patients with Crohn's disease.

Nagayama M(1)(2)(3), Yano T(1), Atarashi K(2)(3)(4), Tanoue T(2)(3), Sekiya M(1),
Kobayashi Y(1), Sakamoto H(1), Miura K(1), Sunada K(1), Kawaguchi T(2)(3), Morita
S(2), Sugita K(2), Narushima S(2)(3), Barnich N(5), Isayama J(2)(4), Kiridooshi
Y(2)(4), Shiota A(2)(4), Suda W(3)(6), Hattori M(3)(6), Yamamoto H(1), Honda
K(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Jichi Medical University
, Tochigi, Japan.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Keio University School of Medicine 
, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Gut Homeostasis, RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical Sciences 
, Yokohama, Japan.
(4)JSR-Keio University Medical and Chemical Innovation Center , Tokyo, Japan.
(5)UMR 1071 Inserm/Université Clermont Auvergne; USC-INRA 2018, Microbes,
Intestin, Inflammation et Susceptibilité de l'Hôte (M2iSH), CRNH Auvergne ,
Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(6)Cooperative Major in Advanced Health Science, Graduate School of Advanced
Science and Engineering, Waseda University , Tokyo, Japan.

Dysbiotic microbiota contributes to the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease (CD) by
regulating the immune system. Although pro-inflammatory microbes are probably
enriched in the small intestinal (SI) mucosa, most studies have focused on fecal 
microbiota. This study aimed to examine jejunal and ileal mucosal specimens from 
patients with CD via double-balloon enteroscopy. Comparative microbiome analysis 
revealed that the microbiota composition of CD SI mucosa differs from that of
non-CD controls, with an increased population of several families, including
Enterobacteriaceae, Ruminococcaceae, and Bacteroidaceae. Upon anaerobic culturing
of the CD SI mucosa, 80 bacterial strains were isolated, from which 9 strains
representing 9 distinct species (Escherichia coli, Ruminococcus gnavus,
Klebsiella pneumoniae, Erysipelatoclostridium ramosum, Bacteroides dorei, B.
fragilis, B. uniformis, Parabacteroides distasonis, and Streptococcus
pasteurianus) were selected on the basis of their significant association with
CD. The colonization of germ-free (GF) mice with the 9 strains enhanced the
accumulation of TH1 cells and, to a lesser extent, TH17 cells in the intestine,
among which an E. coli strain displayed high potential to induce TH1 cells and
intestinal inflammation in a strain-specific manner. The present results indicate
that the CD SI mucosa harbors unique pro-inflammatory microbiota, including TH1
cell-inducing E. coli, which could be a potential therapeutic target.

DOI: 10.1080/19490976.2020.1788898 
PMID: 32691669 

