
1. Exp Gerontol. 2020 Aug 31;141:111079. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2020.111079. [Epub
ahead of print]

Is inflammageing influenced by the microbiota in the aged gut? A systematic
review.

Shintouo CM(1), Mets T(2), Beckwee D(3), Bautmans I(2), Ghogomu SM(4), Souopgui
J(5), Leemans L(6), Meriki HD(4), Njemini R(7).

Author information: 
(1)Frailty in Ageing Research Group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Laarbeeklaan
103, B-1090 Brussels, Belgium; Gerontology Department, Vrije Universiteit
Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 103, B-1090 Brussels, Belgium; Department of Biochemistry
and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Science, University of Buea, P.O Box 63, Buea, 
Cameroon.
(2)Frailty in Ageing Research Group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Laarbeeklaan
103, B-1090 Brussels, Belgium; Gerontology Department, Vrije Universiteit
Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 103, B-1090 Brussels, Belgium; Department of Geriatric
Medicine, Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 101, B-1090 Brussels,
Belgium.
(3)Frailty in Ageing Research Group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Laarbeeklaan
103, B-1090 Brussels, Belgium; Gerontology Department, Vrije Universiteit
Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 103, B-1090 Brussels, Belgium; Rehabilitation Research
Department, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 103, B-1090 Brussels,
Belgium.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Science,
University of Buea, P.O Box 63, Buea, Cameroon.
(5)Department of Molecular Biology, Institute of Biology and Molecular Medicine, 
IBMM, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Gosselies Campus, Belgium.
(6)Rehabilitation Research Department, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Laarbeeklaan
103, B-1090 Brussels, Belgium.
(7)Frailty in Ageing Research Group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Laarbeeklaan
103, B-1090 Brussels, Belgium; Gerontology Department, Vrije Universiteit
Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 103, B-1090 Brussels, Belgium. Electronic address:
Rose.Njemini@vub.be.

Ageing is characterized by a low-grade chronic inflammation marked by elevated
circulating levels of inflammatory mediators. This chronic inflammation occurring
in the absence of obvious infection has been coined as inflammageing and
represents a risk factor for morbidity and mortality in the geriatric population.
Also, with ageing, important perturbations in the gut microbiota have been
underlined and a growing body of literature has implicated age-related gut
dysbiosis as contributing to a global inflammatory state in the elderly.
Notwithstanding, very little attention has been given to how gut microbiota
impact inflammageing. Here, we investigate the available evidence regarding the
association between inflammageing and gut microbiota during ageing. PubMed, Web
of Science and Scopus were systematically screened, and seven relevant articles
in animals or humans were retrieved. The animal studies reported that
Parabacteroides, Mucispirillum, Clostridium and Sarcina positively associate with
the pro-inflammatory MCP-1 while Akkermansia, Oscillospira, Blautia and
Lactobacillus negatively correlate with MCP-1. Furthermore, "aged"-type
microbiota were associated with increased levels of IL6, IL-10, Th1, Th2, Treg,
TNF-α, TGF-β, p16, SAMHD1, Eotaxin, and RANTES; activation of TLR2, NF-κB and
mTOR; and with decreased levels of cyclin E and CDK2. On the other hand, the
study on humans demonstrated that bacteria of the phylum Proteobacteria exhibited
a positive correlation with IL-6 and IL-8, while Ruminococcus lactaris et rel.
portrayed a negative correlation with IL-8. We conclude that changes in
"aged"-type gut microbiota are associated with inflammageing.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2020.111079 
PMID: 32882334 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no conflict of interest. The funders had no role in the design of the
study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of 
the manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results.

