
1. J Biomol Struct Dyn. 2020 Sep;38(15):4371-4384. doi:
10.1080/07391102.2019.1680438. Epub 2019 Oct 23.

Small-angle X-ray scattering based structure, modeling and molecular dynamics
analyses of a family 5 glycoside hydrolase first endo-mannanase named as RfGH5_7 
from Ruminococcus flavefaciens.

Goyal D(1), Kumar K(1), Sharma K(1), Goyal A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosciences and Bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology
Guwahati, Guwahati, Assam, India.

Endo-β-1,4-mannanase named as RfGH5_7 from Ruminococcus flavefaciens cloned,
expressed and purified earlier was structurally characterized in present study.
The RaptorX modeled structure of RfGH5_7 showed a (β/α)8 Triose-phosphate
Isomerase (TIM) barrel fold. The Ramachandran plot assessment of RfGH5_7 showed
that all amino acids fall in allowed region except one, Asn22 in the disallowed
region. The superposition of RfGH5_7 modeled structure with its nearest
homologues revealed that Glu154 acts as proton donor while Glu249 acts as
nucleophile. Secondary structure of RfGH5_7 through Circular Dichroism (CD)
analysis revealed 33.5% α-helices, 17% β-strands and 49.5% random coils.
Molecular Dynamic (MD) simulation showed Root Mean Square Deviation (RMSD),
0.67 nm and radius of gyration (Rg) between 1.9 nm and 1.85 nm. The binding
interaction of mannotetraose on the surface of RfGH5_7 structure displayed polar 
interactions with His219, Tyr221, Trp278, Ser279 and Gly282 residues. Small-angle
X-ray scattering (SAXS) analysis displayed the intact and monodispersed nature of
the enzyme RfGH5_7. The radius of gyration (Rg) by Guinier analysis for globular 
shape was found to be 2.29 ± 0.09 nm and for rod-shape it was 0.95 ± 0.02 nm.
Kratky plot confirmed that RfGH5_7 structure is compact and folded in solution.
The ab initio derived dummy model of RfGH5_7 displayed single domain structure of
yellow humped fish like shape. The RfGH5_7 modeled structure was well fitted with
ab initio derived model from SAXS data. Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2019.1680438 
PMID: 31608797 

