
1. Br J Nutr. 2020 Jul 22:1-9. doi: 10.1017/S0007114520002767. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of different levels of rapeseed cake containing high glucosinolates in
steer ration on rumen fermentation, nutrient digestibility and the rumen
microbial community.

Gao J(1), Sun Y(1), Bao Y(1), Zhou K(1), Kong D(1), Zhao G(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition, College of Animal Science and
Technology, China Agricultural University, 100193Beijing, People's Republic of
China.

This trial was conducted to study the effects of dietary rapeseed cake (RSC)
containing high glucosinolates (GLS) on rumen fermentation, nutrient digestion
and the rumen microbial community in steers. Eight growing steers and four
rations containing RSC (GLS 226·1 μmol/g DM) at 0·00, 2·65, 5·35 and 8·00 % DM
were assigned in a replicate 4 × 4 Latin square design. The results indicated
that increasing RSC levels increased the ruminal concentration of thiocyanate
(SCN) (P < 0·01), decreased the ruminal concentration of ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N)
and the molar proportion of isovalerate (P < 0·05), did not affect the ruminal
concentration of total volatile fatty acids (P > 0·05), decreased the crude
protein (CP) digestibility (P < 0·05) and increased the ether extract (EE)
digestibility (P < 0·01). Increasing RSC levels tended to decrease the abundances
of ruminal Ruminobacter amylophilus (P = 0·055) and Ruminococcus albus (P =
0·086) but did not affect methanogens, protozoa, fungi and other bacteria (P >
0·05). Increasing RSC levels in the ration did not affect the ruminal bacterial
diversity (P > 0·05), but it increased the operational taxonomic units and the
bacterial richness (P < 0·05) and affected the relative abundances of some
bacteria at the phylum level and genus level (P < 0·05). In conclusion, RSC
decreased the ruminal concentration of NH3-N and the CP digestibility, increased 
the EE digestibility and partly affected the ruminal bacterial community. SCN, as
the metabolite of GLS, could be a major factor affecting these indices.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114520002767 
PMID: 32693843 

