
1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Aug;104(15):6623-6634. doi:
10.1007/s00253-020-10684-y. Epub 2020 Jun 9.

Effects of dietary rumen-protected Lys levels on rumen fermentation and bacterial
community composition in Holstein heifers.

Kong F(1), Gao Y(2), Tang M(3), Fu T(3), Diao Q(1), Bi Y(4), Tu Y(5).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Feed Biotechnology of the Ministry of Agriculture, Sino-US
Joint Lab on Nutrition and Metabolism of Ruminants, Feed Research Institute,
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100081, China.
(2)College of Animal Science and Technology, Hebei Agricultural University,
Baoding, 071001, China.
(3)College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Henan Agricultural
University, Zhengzhou, 450002, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Feed Biotechnology of the Ministry of Agriculture, Sino-US
Joint Lab on Nutrition and Metabolism of Ruminants, Feed Research Institute,
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100081, China.
vetbi2008@163.com.
(5)Key Laboratory of Feed Biotechnology of the Ministry of Agriculture, Sino-US
Joint Lab on Nutrition and Metabolism of Ruminants, Feed Research Institute,
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100081, China. tuyan@caas.cn.

This study aimed to evaluate the effects of partial reducing rumen-protected Lys 
(RPLys) on rumen fermentation and microbial composition in heifers. Three ruminal
fistulated Holstein Friesian bulls were used to determine the effective
degradability of RPLys using an in situ method at incubation times of 0, 2, 6,
12, 16, 24, 36, and 48 h. Thereafter, 36 Holstein heifers at 90 days of age were 
assigned to one of two dietary treatments: a theoretically balanced amino acid
diet (PC group; 1.21% Lys, 0.4% Met) or a 30% Lys-reduced diet (PCLys group,
0.85% Lys, 0.4% Met). Rumen fluid samples from five heifers in each group were
extracted using esophageal tubing on day 90 to determine pH, microprotein,
ammonia, volatile fatty acids, and microbial communities. Results showed that the
effective ruminal degradability was 25.76%. Furthermore, differences in rumen
fermentation parameters and alpha diversity of the microbiota between the two
groups were not significant, but beta diversity was significant. Based upon
relative abundance analysis, short-chain fatty acid-producing bacteria, including
Sharpea, Syntrophococcus, [Ruminococcus]_gauvreauii_group, Acetitomaculum, and
[Eubacterium]_nadotum_group belonging to Firmicutes, were significantly decreased
in the PCLys group. Spearman's analysis revealed a positive correlation between
the butyrate molar proportion and the relative abundance of butyrate-producing
bacteria such as [Eubacterium]_nadotum_group, Coprococcus_1,
Ruminococcaceae_UCG_013, Pseudoramibacter, and Lachnospiraceae_UCG_010.
Phylogenetic Investigation of Communities by Reconstruction of Unobserved States 
analysis further validated that RPLys deduction influenced energy metabolism.
Together, our findings highlight the role of RPLys or Lys in butyrate-producing
bacteria. However, the number of bacteria affected by Lys was very limited and
insufficient to alter rumen fermentation. Key Points • Reducing 30% Lys via
rumen-protected Lys did not affect rumen fermentation parameters and alpha
diversity of microbiota of Holstein heifers. It meant that the ruminal
fermentation pattern was not changed. • Reducing 30% Lys via rumen-protected
lysine significantly decreased relative abundance of short-chain fatty
acid-producing bacteria belonging to Firmicutes. • Functions of microorganisms
were changed by reducing 30% Lys via rumen-protected Lys, especially amino acid
metabolism. It may affect the amino acid composition of microprotein.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-020-10684-y 
PMID: 32519120 

