
1. Biochem Pharmacol. 2020 Jun 20;180:114108. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2020.114108. [Epub 
ahead of print]

A combination of inhibiting microglia activity and remodeling gut
microenvironment suppresses the development and progression of experimental
autoimmune uveitis.

Zhou J(1), Yang J(1), Dai M(1), Lin D(1), Zhang R(1), Liu H(1), Yu A(1), Vakal
S(2), Wang Y(3), Li X(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Ophthalmology & Optometry and Eye Hospital, Institute of Biomedical 
Engineering, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou 325027, Zhejiang, China; State
Key Laboratory of Optometry & Vision Science, Wenzhou 325027, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Structural Bioinformatics Laboratory, Biochemistry, Åbo Akademi University,
Turku 20541, Finland.
(3)School of Ophthalmology & Optometry and Eye Hospital, Institute of Biomedical 
Engineering, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou 325027, Zhejiang, China; State
Key Laboratory of Optometry & Vision Science, Wenzhou 325027, Zhejiang, China.
Electronic address: wangyuqin@mail.eye.ac.cn.
(4)School of Ophthalmology & Optometry and Eye Hospital, Institute of Biomedical 
Engineering, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou 325027, Zhejiang, China; State
Key Laboratory of Optometry & Vision Science, Wenzhou 325027, Zhejiang, China.
Electronic address: lixingyi_1984@mail.eye.ac.cn.

Noninfectious (autoimmune and immune-mediated) uveitis is an ocular inflammatory 
disease which can lead to blindness in severe cases. Due to the potential side
effects of first-line drugs for clinical uveitis, novel drugs and targets against
uveitis are still urgently needed. In the present study, using rat experimental
autoimmune uveitis (EAU) model, we first found that minocycline treatment can
substantially inhibit the development of EAU and improve the retinal function by 
suppressing the retinal microglial activation, and block the infiltration of
inflammatory cells, including Th17, into the retina by decreasing the major
histocompatibility complex class II (MHC II) expression in resident and
infiltrating cells. Moreover, we demonstrated that minocycline treatment can
remodel the gut microenvironment of EAU rats by restoring the relative abundance 
of Ruminococcus bromii, Streptococcus hyointestinalis, and Desulfovibrio sp.
ABHU2SB and promoting a functional shift in the gut via reversing the levels of
L-proline, allicin, aceturic acid, xanthine, and leukotriene B4, and especially
increasing the production of propionic acid, histamine, and pantothenic acid. At 
last, we revealed that minocycline treatment can significantly attenuate the
progression of EAU after inflammation onset, which may be explained by the role
of minocycline in the remodeling of the gut microenvironment since selective
elimination of retinal microglia on the later stages of EAU was shown to have
little effect. These data clearly demonstrated that inhibition of microglial
activation and remodeling of the gut microenvironment can suppress the
development and progression of experimental autoimmune uveitis. Considering the
excellent safety profile of minocycline in multiple clinical experiments, we
suggest that minocycline may have therapeutic implications for clinical uveitis.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2020.114108 
PMID: 32569628 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

