
1. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2020 Jul 30;8:856. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00856.
eCollection 2020.

CRISPR/Cas13d-Mediated Microbial RNA Knockdown.

Zhang K(1)(2), Zhang Z(1)(2), Kang J(3), Chen J(1), Liu J(1), Gao N(1)(2), Fan
L(1)(4), Zheng P(1)(2)(4), Wang Y(1)(2), Sun J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Systems Microbial Biotechnology, Tianjin Institute of
Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tianjin, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)College of Life Engineering, Shenyang Institute of Technology, Fushun, China.
(4)School of Life Sciences, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei,
China.

RNA-guided and RNA-targeting type IV-D CRISPR/Cas systems (CRISPR/Cas13d) have
recently been identified and employed for efficient and specific RNA knockdown in
mammalian and plant cells. Cas13d possesses dual RNase activities and is capable 
of processing CRISPR arrays and cleaving target RNAs in a protospacer flanking
sequence (PFS)-independent manner. These properties make this system a promising 
tool for multiplex gene expression regulation in microbes. Herein, we aimed to
establish a CRISPR/Cas13d-mediated RNA knockdown platform for bacterial chassis. 
CasRx, Cas13d from Ruminococcus flavefaciens XPD3002, was selected due to its
high activity. However, CasRx was found to be highly toxic to both Escherichia
coli and Corynebacterium glutamicum, especially when it cooperated with its guide
and target RNAs. After employing a low copy number vector, a tightly controlled
promoter, and a weakened ribosome binding site, we successfully constructed an
inducible expression system for CasRx and applied it for repressing the
expression of a green fluorescent protein (GFP) in E. coli. Despite our efforts
to optimize inducer usage, guide RNA (gRNA) architecture and combination, and
target gene expression level, the highest gene repression efficiency was 30-50%
at the protein level and ∼70% at the mRNA level. The moderate RNA knockdown is
possibly caused by the collateral cleavage activity toward bystander RNAs, which 
acts as a mechanism of type IV-D immunity and perturbs microbial metabolism.
Further studies on cellular response to CRISPR/Cas13d and improvement in RNA
knockdown efficiency are required prior to practical application of this system
in microbes.

Copyright © 2020 Zhang, Zhang, Kang, Chen, Liu, Gao, Fan, Zheng, Wang and Sun.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00856 
PMCID: PMC7406568
PMID: 32850723 

