
1. Anal Chem. 2019 Nov 5;91(21):13582-13590. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.9b02739. Epub
2019 Oct 23.

Fluorogenic Assay for Acetohydroxyacid Synthase: Design and Applications.

Xie Y(1), Zhang C(2), Wang Z(3), Wei C(1), Liao N(1), Wen X(1), Niu C(1), Yi
L(2)(4), Wang Z(3), Xi Z(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Elemento-Organic Chemistry, College of Chemistry,
National Pesticide Engineering Research Center (Tianjin), College of Chemistry , 
Nankai University , Tianjin 300071 , P. R. China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Organic-Inorganic Composites and Beijing Key Lab of
Bioprocess , Beijing University of Chemical Technology (BUCT) , Beijing 100029 , 
P. R. China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor Engineering , East China University of
Science and Technology , 130 Meilong Road , Shanghai 200237 , P. R. China.
(4)Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical Science and Engineering , Nankai
University , Tianjin 300071 , P. R. China.

Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) exists in plants and many microorganisms
(including gut flora) but not in mammals, making it an attractive drug target.
Fluorescent-based methods should be practical for high-throughput screening of
inhibitors. Herein, we describe the development of the first AHAS fluorogenic
assay based on an intramolecular charge transfer (ICT)-based fluorescent probe.
The assay is facile, sensitive, and continuous and can be applied toward various 
AHASs from different species, AHAS mutants, and crude cell lysates. The
fluorogenic assay was successfully applied for (1) high-throughput screening of
commerical herbicides toward different AHASs for choosing matching herbicides,
(2) identification of a Soybean AHAS gene with broad-spectrum herbicide
resistance, and (3) identification of selective inhibitors toward
intestinal-bacterial AHASs. Among the AHAS inhibitors, an active agent was found 
for selective inhibition of obesity-associated Ruminococcus torques growth,
implying the possibility of AHAS inhibitors for the ultimate goal toward
antiobesity therapeutics. The fluorogenic assay opens the door for
high-throughput programs in AHAS-related fields, and the design principle might
be applied for development of fluorogenic assays of other synthases.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.9b02739 
PMID: 31603309 

