
1. Biosci Rep. 2019 Oct 30;39(10). pii: BSR20191914. doi: 10.1042/BSR20191914.

Homology-directed repair in mouse cells increased by CasRx-mediated knockdown or 
co-expressing Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ORF52.

Pan H(1), Yu W(2), Zhang M(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Subtropical
Agro-bioresources, College of Life Science and Technology, Guangxi University,
100 Daxue Road, Nanning 530004, Guangxi, China.
(2)Department of Assisted Reproduction, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital,
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200011, China.
(3)College of Animal Science and Technology, Guangxi University, 100 Daxue Road, 
Nanning 530004, Guangxi, China.

Precise genome editing with directed base insertion or targeted point mutations
can be achieved by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated homology-directed repair (HDR) and is of 
great significance in clinical disease therapy. However, HDR efficiency, compared
with non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ), is inherently low. To enhance HDR,
enabling the insertion of precise genetic modifications, we compared two
strategies during surrogate reporter assays in mouse N2A cells: the suppression
of DNA ligase IV, a key molecule in NHEJ, using the CasRx (Ruminococcus
flavefaciens Cas13d) system, and co-expression of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated
herpesvirus (KSHV) ORF52 proteins. We found that suppression of DNA ligase IV
promotes HDR efficiency by 1.4-fold. When co-expressed with the Cas9 system,
ORF52 improved HDR efficiency by up to 2.1-fold. In addition, we used ORF52
co-expression to modify the ACTB and Tubb3 genes of mouse N2A and E14 cells,
which further increased HDR efficiency by approximately two- to four-fold. In
conclusion, our data suggest that ORF52 co-expression is effective for enhancing 
CRISPR/Cas9-mediated HDR, which may be useful for future studies involving
precise genome editing.

Â© 2019 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1042/BSR20191914 
PMCID: PMC6822532
PMID: 31519773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

