
1. Nutrients. 2020 Feb 28;12(3). pii: E644. doi: 10.3390/nu12030644.

Consumption of an Oil Palm Fruit Extract Promotes Large Bowel Health in Rats.

Conlon MA(1), Sambanthamurthi R(2), Tan YA(2), Sundram K(3), Fairus S(2),
Abeywardena MY(1).

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Health & Biosecurity, Adelaide, South Australia 5000, Australia.
(2)Malaysian Palm Oil Board, 6, Persiaran Institusi, Bandar Baru Bangi, Kajang
Selangor 43000, Malaysia.
(3)Malaysian Palm Oil Council, 2nd Floor, Wisma Sawit, Jalan Perbandaran, Kelana 
Jaya 47301, Selangor, Malaysia.

Oil palm fruit is widely used for edible oils, but the health benefits of other
components are relatively unknown. We examined if consuming a polyphenol-rich
extract of the fruit, from a vegetation by-product of oil processing, which also 
contains fibre, has gastro-intestinal benefits in rats on a Western-type diet
(WD). The oil palm preparation (OPP) was added to food (OPP-F) or drinking water 
(OPP-D) to provide 50 mg of gallic acid equivalents (GAE)/d and compared to
effects of high amylose maize starch (HAMS; 30%) in the diet or green tea extract
(GT; 50 mg GAE/d) in drinking water over 4 wk. OPP treatments induced some
significant effects (P < 0.05) compared to WD. OPP-D increased caecal digesta
mass, caecal digesta concentrations of total SCFA, acetate and propionate (OPP-F 
increased caecal butyrate concentration), the numbers of mucus-producing goblet
cells per colonic crypt, and caecal digesta abundance of some bacteria which may 
provide benefit to the host (Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Akkermansia
muciniphila and Ruminococcus gnavus). HAMS induced similar effects but with
greater potency and had a broader impact on microbe populations, whereas GT had
minimal impacts. These results suggest dietary OPP may benefit the large bowel.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12030644 
PMCID: PMC7146302
PMID: 32121179 

Conflict of interest statement: There is a potential conflict of interest
resulting from the involvement and authorship of representatives of the funder
(MPOB) in this study.

