
1. J Anim Sci. 2020 Jul 1;98(7). pii: skaa228. doi: 10.1093/jas/skaa228.

Ruminal cellulolytic bacteria abundance leads to the variation in fatty acids in 
the rumen digesta and meat of fattening lambs.

Zhang Z(1)(2), Niu X(1)(2), Li F(1)(2), Li F(1)(2), Guo L(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Grassland Agro-Ecosystems, Key Laboratory of Grassland
Livestock Industry Innovation, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, College
of Pastoral Agriculture Science and Technology, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, P.R.
China.
(2)Engineering Research Center of Grassland Industry, Ministry of Education,
College of Pastoral Agriculture Science and Technology, Lanzhou University,
Lanzhou, P.R. China.

Ruminal cellulolytic bacteria could be a diagnostic tool for determining the
subacute rumen acidosis (SARA) risk in individual ruminants; however, a limited
number of studies have investigated the effects of the abundance of ruminal
cellulolytic bacteria on the fatty acid (FA) composition of the rumen digesta and
the muscle of sheep. Thus, the objective of this study was to evaluate the effect
of the variation of rumen cellulolytic bacteria on the rumen fermentation, rumen 
digesta, and muscle FA composition of fattening lambs fed an identical diet.
Forty-eight lambs were reared in individual units and fed a high-concentrate diet
consisting of 20% forage and 80% concentrate. All lambs were adapted to diets and
facilities for 14 d, and sampling was for 63 d. At the end of the experiment, the
rumen fluid, rumen digesta, and longissimus dorsi were collected after slaughter 
for the measurement of volatile fatty acids, ruminal bacterial DNA, rumen
digesta, and muscle FAs. The lambs were classified into the lower cellulolytic
bacteria (LCB, n = 10) group and the higher cellulolytic bacteria (HCB, n = 10)
group according to the abundance of pH-sensitive cellulolytic bacteria
(Ruminococcus albus, Ruminococcus flavefaciens, Fibrobacter succinogenes, and
Butyrivibrio fibrisolvens) in the rumen. Ruminal acetate concentration was
positively correlated with the number of R. flavefaciens, F. Succinogenes, and B.
fibrisolvens (P < 0.05, r > 0.296), whereas propionate and valerate
concentrations were negatively correlated with the amount of F. succinogenes and 
B. fibrisolvens (P < 0.05, r > 0.348). Compared with the LCB group, the acetate
(P = 0.018) as well as acetate to propionate ratio (P = 0.012) in the HCB group
was higher, but the valerate ratio was lower (P = 0.002). The proportions of
even-chain FAs and odd- and branched-chain fatty acid in the rumen digesta of
lambs with the HCB were higher (P < 0.05), while the polyunsaturated fatty acids 
decreased than those in the LCB lambs (P < 0.05), but those FA proportions in the
meat were similar between the two groups. The proportion of C17:0 in the meat of 
lambs in the HCB group was lower than that of lambs in the LCB group (P = 0.033).
The proportions of conjugated linoleic acid in rumen digesta and meat were both
higher in the HCB group than that in the LCB group (P = 0.046). These results
indicated that the ruminal cellulolytic bacteria can alter the FA compositions in
rumen digesta and further influenced the FA compositions in the meat of sheep.

Â© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
American Society of Animal Science. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jas/skaa228 
PMCID: PMC7448102 [Available on 2021-07-20]
PMID: 32687154 

