
1. J Anim Physiol Anim Nutr (Berl). 2020 Mar;104(2):431-438. doi: 10.1111/jpn.13284.
Epub 2019 Dec 30.

Effects of Piper sarmentosum extract supplementation on growth performances and
rumen fermentation and microflora characteristics in goats.

Zhou L(1), Wang D(1), Hu H(1), Zhou H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tropical Crops Genetic Resources Institute, Chinese Academy of Tropical
Agricultural Sciences, Haikou, Hainan, China.

This study was carried out to investigate the effect of diet Piper sarmentosum
extract (PSE) on the growth performance, antioxidant properties, rumen
fermentation and microflora in goats. Forty Hainan black goats with similar body 
weight were divided into four groups with supplementation of PSE in the
concentrate at 0, 300, 600 and 1,200 mg/kg, respectively, and fed for 56 days.
Results showed that average daily gain (ADG) was higher and feed intake/body gain
(F/G) was lower in goats fed with PSE at 300 mg/kg (p < .05). The activities of
glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC) in the
serum of goats differed among treatments and were greatest linearly when PSE was 
added at 1,200 mg/kg (p < .05). The level of malondialdehyde (MDA) in the serum
of goats differed among treatments and was lowest linearly when PSE was added at 
1,200 mg/kg (p < .05). The level of protozoal protein in the rumen of goats
differed among treatments and was lowest linearly when PSE was added at
1,200 mg/kg (p < .05). The concentrations of ruminal acetic acid and valeric acid
and the ratio of acetate to propionate were reduced with PSE supplementation
(p < .05). Protozoa, fungi, Ruminococcus flavefaciens and Fibrobacter
succinogenes contents differed among treatments and were lowest linearly when PSE
was added at 1,200 mg/kg (p < .05). Thus, supplementation of PSE at
300-1,200 mg/kg to goat concentrate is recommended for improving antioxidative
ability and rumen efficiency and reducing protozoal content of goat.

© 2019 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/jpn.13284 
PMID: 31889354 

