
1. Microorganisms. 2019 Nov 13;7(11). pii: E562. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms7110562.

Perilla frutescens Leaf Alters the Rumen Microbial Community of Lactating Dairy
Cows.

Sun Z(1), Yu Z(1), Wang B(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Grass Science and Technology, China Agricultural University,
Beijing 100193, China.

Perilla frutescens (L.) Britt., an annual herbaceous plant, has antibacterial,
anti-inflammation, and antioxidant properties. To understand the effects of P.
frutescens leaf on the ruminal microbial ecology of cattle, Illumina MiSeq 16S
rRNA sequencing technology was used. Fourteen cows were used in a randomized
complete block design trial. Two diets were fed to these cattle: a control diet
(CON); and CON supplemented with 300 g/d P. frutescens leaf (PFL) per cow.
Ruminal fluid was sampled at the end of the experiment for microbial DNA
extraction. Overall, our findings revealed that supplementation with PFL could
increase ruminal fluid pH value. The ruminal bacterial community of cattle was
dominated by Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, and Proteobacteria. The addition of PFL
had a positive effect on Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Spirochaetes, but had no
effect on Bacteroidetes and Proteobacteria compared with the CON. The
supplementation with PFL significantly increased the abundance of Marvinbryantia,
Acetitomaculum, Ruminococcus gauvreauii, Eubacterium coprostanoligenes,
Selenomonas_1, Pseudoscardovia, norank_f__Muribaculaceae, and Sharpea, and
decreased the abundance of Treponema_2 compared to CON. Eubacterium
coprostanoligenes, and norank_f__Muribaculaceae were positively correlated with
ruminal pH value. It was found that norank_f__Muribaculaceae and Acetitomaculum
were positively correlated with milk yield, indicating that these different
genera are PFL associated bacteria. This study suggests that PFL supplementation 
could increase the ruminal pH value and induce shifts in the ruminal bacterial
composition.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms7110562 
PMCID: PMC6921060
PMID: 31766265 

