
1. Arch Anim Nutr. 2020 Aug;74(4):257-270. doi: 10.1080/1745039X.2019.1679562. Epub 
2019 Nov 13.

Effects of soybean oil and dietary copper levels on nutrient digestion, ruminal
fermentation, enzyme activity, microflora and microbial protein synthesis in
dairy bulls.

Shang X(1), Wang C(1), Zhang G(1), Liu Q(1), Guo G(1), Huo W(1), Zhang J(1), Pei 
C(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Shanxi Agricultural
University , Taigu, Shanxi, P R China.

The study evaluated the effects of soybean oil (SO) and dietary copper levels on 
nutrient digestion, ruminal fermentation, enzyme activity, microflora and
microbial protein synthesis in dairy bulls. Eight Holstein rumen-cannulated bulls
(14 ± 0.2 months of age and 326 ± 8.9 kg of body weight) were allocated into a
replicated 4 × 4 Latin square design in a 2 × 2 factorial arrangement with
factors being 0 or 40 g/kg dietary dry matter (DM) of SO and 0 or 7.68 mg/kg DM
of Cu from copper sulphate (CS). The basal diet contained per kg DM 500 g of corn
silage, 500 g of concentrate, 28 g of ether extract (EE) and 7.5 mg of Cu. The SO
× CS interaction was significant (p < 0.05) for ruminal propionate proportion and
acetate to propionate ratio. Dietary SO addition increased (p < 0.05) intake and 
total tract digestibility of EE but did not affect average daily gain (ADG) of
bulls. Dietary CS addition did not affect nutrient intake but increased (p <
0.05) ADG and total tract digestibility of DM, organic matter, crude protein and 
neutral detergent fibre. Ruminal pH was not affected by treatments. Dietary SO
addition did not affect ruminal total volatile fatty acids (VFA) concentration,
decreased (p < 0.05) acetate proportion and ammonia N and increased (p < 0.05)
propionate proportion. Dietary CS addition did not affect ammonia N, increased (p
< 0.05) total VFA concentration and acetate proportion and decreased (p < 0.05)
propionate proportion. Acetate to propionate ratio decreased (p < 0.05) with SO
addition and increased (p < 0.05) with CS addition. Dietary SO addition decreased
(p < 0.05) activity of carboxymethyl cellulase, cellobiase and xylanase as well
as population of fungi, protozoa, methanogens, Ruminococcus albus and R.
flavefaciens but increased (p < 0.05) α-amylase activity and population of
Prevotella ruminicola and Ruminobacter amylophilus. Dietary CS addition increased
(p < 0.05) activity of cellulolytic enzyme and protease as well as population of 
total bacteria, fungi, protozoa, methanogens, primary cellulolytic and
proteolytic bacteria. Microbial protein synthesis was unchanged with SO addition 
but increased (p < 0.05) with CS addition. The results indicated that the
addition of CS promoted nutrient digestion and ruminal fermentation by
stimulating microbial growth and enzyme activity but did not relieve the negative
effects of SO addition on ruminal fermentation in dairy bulls.

DOI: 10.1080/1745039X.2019.1679562 
PMID: 31718315 

