
1. Animal. 2020 Jul 1:1-9. doi: 10.1017/S1751731120001500. [Epub ahead of print]

Colonic microbiome profiles for improved feed efficiency can be identified
despite major effects of farm of origin and contemporary group in pigs.

Vigors S(1), O' Doherty JV(1), Sweeney T(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Agriculture and Food Science, University College Dublin, Belfield,
Dublin 4, Ireland.
(2)School of Veterinary Medicine, University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, 
Ireland.

While feed efficiency (FE) is a trait of great economic importance to the pig
industry, the influence of the intestinal microbiome in determining FE is not
well understood. The objective of this experiment was to determine the relative
influence of FE and farm of birth on the pig colonic microbiome. Animals
divergent in residual feed intake (RFI) were sourced from two geographically
distinct locations (farms A + B) in Ireland. The 8 most efficient (low RFI
(LRFI)) and 8 least efficient (high RFI, (HRFI)) pigs from farm A and 12 LRFI and
12 HRFI pigs from farm B were sacrificed. Colonic digesta was collected for
microbial analysis using 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing and also for volatile 
fatty acid analysis. The α-diversity differed between the farms in this study,
with pigs from farm A having greater diversity based on Shannon and InvSimpson
measures compared to pigs from farm B (P < 0.05), with no difference identified
in either Chao1 or observed measures of diversity (P > 0.05). In the analysis of 
β-diversity, pigs clustered based on farm of birth rather than RFI. Variation in 
the management of piglets, weight of the piglets, season of the year, sanitary
status and dam dietary influence could potentially be causative factors in this
large variation between farms. However, despite significant variation in the
microbial profile between farms, consistent taxonomic differences were identified
between RFI groups. Within the phylum Bacteroidetes, the LRFI pigs had increased 
abundance of BS11 (P < 0.05) and a tendency toward increased Bacteroidaceae (P < 
0.10) relative to the HRFI group. At genus level, the LRFI pigs had increased
abundance of Colinsella (P < 0.05), a tendency toward increased Bacteroides and
CF231 (P < 0.10). At species level, Ruminococcus flavefaciens had increased
abundance in the LRFI compared to the HRFI animals. In conclusion, while farm of 
birth has a substantial influence on microbial diversity in the pig colon, a
microbial signature indicative of FE status was apparent.

DOI: 10.1017/S1751731120001500 
PMID: 32605690 

