
1. Br J Nutr. 2020 Jul 28:1-9. doi: 10.1017/S0007114520002986. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of copper sulphate and coated copper sulphate addition on lactation
performance, nutrient digestibility, ruminal fermentation and blood metabolites
in dairy cows.

Wang C(1), Han L(1), Zhang GW(1), Du HS(1), Wu ZZ(1), Liu Q(1), Guo G(1), Huo
WJ(1), Zhang J(1), Zhang YL(1), Pei CX(1), Zhang SL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Nutrition and Feed Science, College of Animal Science and
Veterinary Medicine, Shanxi Agricultural University, Taigu, Shanxi
Province030801, People's Republic of China.

Coated copper sulphate (CCS) could be used as a Cu supplement in cows. To
investigate the influences of copper sulphate (CS) and CCS on milk performance,
nutrient digestion and rumen fermentation, fifty Holstein dairy cows were
arranged in a randomised block design to five groups: control, CS addition (7·5
mg Cu/kg DM from CS) or CCS addition (5, 7·5 and 10 mg Cu/kg DM from CCS,
respectively). When comparing Cu source at equal inclusion rates (7·5 mg/kg DM), 
cows receiving CCS addition had higher yields of fat-corrected milk, milk fat and
protein; digestibility of DM, organic matter (OM) and neutral-detergent fibre
(NDF); ruminal total volatile fatty acid (VFA) concentration; activities of
carboxymethyl cellulase, cellobiase, pectinase and α-amylase; populations of
Ruminococcus albus, Ruminococcus flavefaciens and Fibrobacter succinogenes; and
liver Cu content than cows receiving CS addition. Increasing CCS addition, DM
intake was unchanged, yields of milk, milk fat and protein; feed efficiency;
digestibility of DM, OM, NDF and acid-detergent fibre; ruminal total VFA
concentration; acetate:propionate ratio; activity of cellulolytic enzyme;
populations of total bacteria, protozoa and dominant cellulolytic bacteria; and
concentrations of Cu in serum and liver increased linearly, but ruminal
propionate percentage, ammonia-N concentration, α-amylase activity and
populations of Prevotella ruminicola and Ruminobacter amylophilus decreased
linearly. The results indicated that supplement of CS could be substituted with
CCS and addition of CCS improved milk performance and nutrient digestion in dairy
cows.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114520002986 
PMID: 32718368 

