
1. Poult Sci. 2020 Mar;99(3):1432-1443. doi: 10.1016/j.psj.2019.10.061. Epub 2019
Dec 9.

Bacillus licheniformis-fermented products improve growth performance and the
fecal microbiota community in broilers.

Chen YC(1), Yu YH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Animal Science, National Ilan University,
Yilan, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Biotechnology and Animal Science, National Ilan University,
Yilan, Taiwan. Electronic address: yuyh@niu.edu.tw.

This study investigated the effects of Bacillus licheniformis-fermented products 
on the growth performance and fecal microbial community of broilers. A total of
144 one-day-old male broiler chicks (Ross 308) were randomly assigned into 4
dietary treatments, with 6 replicate cages per treatment and 6 birds per cage.
The dietary treatments comprised a basal diet as control, control plus 1 and
3 g/kg of B. licheniformis-fermented products, and control plus 10 mg/kg of
enramycin. The results indicated that 3 g/kg of B. licheniformis-fermented
products increased (P < 0.05) the BW and ADG of broilers relative to controls. No
significant difference was observed in the growth performance of broilers fed
enramycin and 3 g/kg of B. licheniformis-fermented products. However, principal
coordinate analysis and a heatmap of species abundance indicated distinct
clusters between the groups treated with enramycin and 3 g/kg of B.
licheniformis-fermented products. The abundance of the phylum Firmicutes in feces
increased (P < 0.05) in broilers fed 3 g/kg of B. licheniformis-fermented
products, whereas the abundance of the phyla Verrucomicrobia and Bacteroidetes in
feces decreased (P < 0.05) in response to treatment with 3 g/kg of B.
licheniformis-fermented products. The abundance of the genera Enterococcus,
Akkermansia, Ruminococcus torques group, Faecalibacterium, and Parabacteroides in
feces decreased (P < 0.05) in broilers fed 3 g/kg of B. licheniformis-fermented
products, whereas the abundance of the genus Lactobacillus in feces increased
(P < 0.05) in response to treatment with 3 g/kg of B. licheniformis-fermented
products. The average abundance of the genus Lactobacillus in feces was
positively correlated with the growth performance of broilers. These results
demonstrate that B. licheniformis-fermented products can improve the growth
performance and fecal microflora composition of broilers.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psj.2019.10.061 
PMID: 32115030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

