
1. Vet Med Sci. 2020 Jul 26. doi: 10.1002/vms3.309. [Epub ahead of print]

Effect of exposure to gaseous hydrogen sulphide on cecal microbial diversity of
weaning pigs.

Cui J(1), Wu F(1), Yang X(1), Liu T(1), Xia X(1), Chang X(1), Wang H(1), Sun
L(1), Wei Y(1), Jia Z(1), Liu S(1), Han S(1), Chen B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Science and Technology, Hebei Agricultural University,
Bao ding, China.

The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of different concentrations 
of gaseous hydrogen sulphide on cecal microbial diversity in weaning pigs. A
total of 24 weaning pigs (Landrace × Yorkshire × Duroc; average body
weight = 8.55 ± 0.68 kg；weaning at 28 days) were selected and randomly divided
into four groups (six replicates in each group). The piglets were exposed to
hydrogen sulphide exposure 0, 5, 10 and 15 mg/m3 ) during the experiment period, 
which lasted 28 days in four controlled environmental chambers. The cecal chyme
was taken and the microbial community structure was analysed by high-throughput
sequencing. The results showed that exposure to hydrogen sulphide reduced the
average daily gain (ADG), average daily feed intake (ADFI) and increased the
diarrhoea rate of piglets. Hydrogen sulphide could increase the number of
operational taxon units (OTUs) and the abundance and diversity of intestinal
microbiota. The abundance of Firmicutes and Proteobacteria increased and the
abundance of Bacteroides decreased in the treatment groups. Five biomarkers, such
as Eubacterium_1 coprostanoligenes, Clostridiales, Phascolarctobacterium,
Acidaminococcaceae and Ruminococcaceae_UCG_002 were selected by Lefse analysis.
The most positively correlated bacteria were Terrisporobacter and
Oscillospiraceae (r = 0.70) and the highly negative correlation was found between
Ruminococcaceae_NK4A214_group and [Ruminococcus]_gauvreauii_group (r = 0.64).
Thus, hydrogen sulphide destroyed the microbial balance and increased the
abundance of harmful bacteria. Our results reveal that hydrogen sulphide can
damage the growth performance of weaning pigs and intestine microbial balance.
The concentrations of hydrogen sulphide should be controlled below 5 mg/m3 .

© 2020 The Authors. Veterinary Medicine and Science Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/vms3.309 
PMID: 32713126 

