
1. Nutrients. 2020 Apr 23;12(4). pii: E1182. doi: 10.3390/nu12041182.

Consumption of Cooked Black Beans Stimulates a Cluster of Some Clostridia Class
Bacteria Decreasing Inflammatory Response and Improving Insulin Sensitivity.

Sánchez-Tapia M(1), Hernández-Velázquez I(2), Pichardo-Ontiveros E(1),
Granados-Portillo O(1), Gálvez A(2), R Tovar A(1), Torres N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiología de la Nutrición, Instituto Nacional de Ciencias
Médicas y Nutrición Salvador Zubirán, Mexico City 14080, Mexico.
(2)Facultad de Química, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Mexico City
0410, Mexico.

There is limited information on the effect of black beans (BB) as a source of
protein and resistant starch on the intestinal microbiota. The purpose of the
present work was to study the effect of cooked black beans with and without high 
fat and sugar (HF + S) in the diet on body composition, energy expenditure, gut
microbiota, short-chain fatty acids, NF-κB, occluding and insulin signaling in a 
rat model and the area under the curve for glucose, insulin and incretins in
healthy subjects. The consumption of BB reduced the percentage of body fat, the
area under the curve of glucose, serum leptin, LPS, glucose and insulin
concentrations and increased energy expenditure even in the presence of HF + S.
These results could be mediated in part by modification of the gut microbiota, by
increasing a cluster of bacteria in the Clostridia class, mainly R. bromii, C.
eutactus, R. callidus, R. flavefaciens and B. pullicaecorum and by an increase in
the concentration of fecal butyrate. In conclusion, the consumption of BB can be 
recommended to prevent insulin resistance and metabolic endotoxemia by modifying 
the gut microbiota. Finally, the groups fed BB showed lower abundance of hepatic 
FMO-3, even with a high-fat diet protecting against the production of TMAO and
obesity.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12041182 
PMCID: PMC7230233
PMID: 32340138 

