
1. Animals (Basel). 2019 Dec 13;9(12). pii: E1145. doi: 10.3390/ani9121145.

Bacillus licheniformis-Fermented Products Reduce Diarrhea Incidence and Alter the
Fecal Microbiota Community in Weaning Piglets.

Hung DY(1), Cheng YH(1), Chen WJ(1), Hua KF(1), Pietruszka A(2), Dybus A(3), Lin 
CS(4), Yu YH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Animal Science, National Ilan University,
Yilan 26047, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Monogastric Animal Sciences, West Pomeranian University of
Technology, 70-310 Szczecin, Poland.
(3)Department of Genetics, West Pomeranian University of Technology, 70-310
Szczecin, Poland.
(4)Animal Technology Laboratories, Agricultural Technology Research Institute,
Miaoli 350-53, Taiwan.

Prophylactic use of antibiotics in-feed has been effective in decreasing the
incidence of diarrhea in weaning piglets. However, the overuse of antibiotics as 
prophylactic or therapeutic agents in animal feed leads to the evolution of
drug-resistant bacteria and antibiotic residues in pigs. This study investigated 
the effects of Bacillus licheniformis-fermented products on diarrhea incidence
and the fecal microbial community in weaning piglets. A total of 120 crossbred
piglets with an average initial body weight of 9.87 Â± 1.43 kg were randomly
allotted to four dietary treatments consisting of three replicate stalls with 10 
piglets in each. The dietary treatments comprised a basal diet as control,
control plus 1 g/kg or 4.5 g/kg of B. licheniformis-fermented products, and
control plus 30 mg/kg antibiotics (bacitracin methylene disalicylate). Results
showed that 4.5 g/kg of B. licheniformis-fermented product supplementation
significantly reduced diarrhea incidence in weaning piglets. Principal coordinate
analysis and a heatmap of species abundance indicated distinct clusters between
the groups treated with antibiotics and B. licheniformis-fermented products. The 
bacterial richness and evenness in the feces decreased in weaning piglets fed 1
g/kg of B. licheniformis-fermented products and antibiotics. The abundance of the
genera [Ruminococcus] gauvreauii group, Ruminococcaceae UCG-005, and
Ruminococcaceae UCG-008 in the feces decreased in weaning piglets fed B.
licheniformis-fermented products or antibiotics. The average abundance of the
genus Prevotella 9 in the feces was positively correlated with the concentration 
of B. licheniformis-fermented products and negatively correlated with the
diarrhea incidence in weaning piglets. Furthermore, the average abundance of the 
genus Prevotella 9 in the feces was positively correlated with the growth
performance of weaning piglets. These results demonstrate that B.
licheniformis-fermented products can improve diarrhea incidence and fecal
microflora composition in weaning piglets.

DOI: 10.3390/ani9121145 
PMCID: PMC6940967
PMID: 31847281 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

