
1. Zhongguo Yi Xue Ke Xue Yuan Xue Bao. 2019 Oct 30;41(5):636-645. doi:
10.3881/j.issn.1000-503X.11372.

[Gut Microbiome Differences between Gastrointestinal Cancer Patients and Healthy 
People].

[Article in Chinese]

Li NN(1), Bai CM(1), Zhao L(1), Ge YP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology,PUMC Hospital,CAMS and PUMC,Beijing
100032,China.

Objective To compare the differences in fecal flora among patients with
esophageal cancer,gastric cancer,or colorectal cancer and between patients with
gastrointestinal tumors and healthy people.Methods The 16S rRNA method was used
to analyze the differences in fecal flora among 13 patients with esophageal
squamous cell carcinoma,23 patients with gastric cancer,6 patients with
colorectal cancer,and 49 healthy persons.Results Bifidobacterium,Faecalibacterium
prausnitzii,and Ruminococcus callidus were less abundant in the fecal flora of
cancer patients than in those of healthy controls(all P<0.05).Some species of
Firmicutes and Actinobacteria were significantly reduced in the feces of patients
with esophageal cancer or gastric cancer than in healthy people(P<0.05),whereas
others showed consistency with the intestinal cancer group.Anti-tumor
treatment,antibiotics,and lactic acid could affect the fecal flora of cancer
patients.Conclusion The gut microbiota compositions(mainly Firmicutes and
Actinobacteria)and some specific bacteria species in the feces of patients with
esophageal cancer and gastric cancer are similar to those in the feces of
patients with intestinal cancer,suggesting these bacteria may be involved in the 
development of upper gastrointestinal tumors.

DOI: 10.3881/j.issn.1000-503X.11372 
PMID: 31699194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

