
1. Microbes Environ. 2019 Dec 27;34(4):421-428. doi: 10.1264/jsme2.ME19113. Epub
2019 Nov 19.

Pretreatment of Lignocellulosic Biomass with Cattle Rumen Fluid for Methane
Production: Fate of Added Rumen Microbes and Indigenous Microbes of Methane Seed 
Sludge.

Baba Y(1)(2)(3), Matsuki Y(4), Takizawa S(1), Suyama Y(4), Tada C(1), Fukuda
Y(1), Saito M(5), Nakai Y(1)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sustainable Animal Environmental Science, Graduate School of
Agricultural Science, Tohoku University.
(2)Research Fellow of the Japanese Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS).
(3)Research Institute for Bioresources and Biotechnology, Ishikawa Prefectural
University.
(4)Laboratory of Forest Ecology, Graduate School of Agricultural Science, Tohoku 
University.
(5)Laboratory of Environmental Crop Science, Graduate School of Agricultural
Science, Tohoku University.
(6)Department of Agro-Food Science, Faculty of Agro-Food Science, Niigata
Agro-Food University.

The pretreatment of lignocellulosic substrates with cattle rumen fluid was
successfully developed to increase methane production. In the present study, a
16S rRNA gene-targeted amplicon sequencing approach using the MiSeq platform was 
applied to elucidate the effects of the rumen fluid treatment on the microbial
community structure in laboratory-scale batch methane fermenters. Methane
production in fermenters fed rumen fluid-treated rapeseed (2,077.3 mL CH4
reactor-1 for a 6-h treatment) was markedly higher than that in fermenters fed
untreated rapeseed (1,325.8 mL CH4 reactor-1). Microbial community profiling
showed that the relative abundance of known lignocellulose-degrading bacteria
corresponded to lignocellulose-degrading enzymatic activities. Some dominant
indigenous cellulolytic and hemicellulolytic bacteria in seed sludge (e.g.,
Cellulosilyticum lentocellum and Ruminococcus flavefaciens) and rumen fluid
(e.g., Butyrivibrio fibrisolvens and Prevotella ruminicola) became undetectable
or markedly decreased in abundance in the fermenters fed rumen fluid-treated
rapeseed, whereas some bacteria derived from seed sludge (e.g., Ruminofilibacter 
xylanolyticum) and rumen fluid (e.g., R. albus) remained detectable until the
completion of methane production. Thus, several lignocellulose-degrading bacteria
associated with rumen fluid proliferated in the fermenters, and may play an
important role in the degradation of lignocellulosic compounds in the fermenter.

DOI: 10.1264/jsme2.ME19113 
PMCID: PMC6934390
PMID: 31748428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

