
1. Br J Nutr. 2020 Jul 28:1-10. doi: 10.1017/S0007114520002962. [Epub ahead of
print]

Association of fibre degradation with ruminal dissolved hydrogen in growing beef 
bulls fed with two types of forages.

Wang R(1), Wang M(1), Lin B(2), Ma ZY(1), Ungerfeld EM(3), Wu TT(2), Wen JN(1),
Zhang XM(1), Deng JP(4), Tan ZL(1).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory for Agro-Ecological Processes in Subtropical Region, Hunan 
Research Center of Livestock and Poultry Sciences, Institute of Subtropical
Agriculture, The Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changsha, Hunan410125, People's
Republic of China.
(2)Department of Animal Science and Technology, University of Guangxi, Nanning,
Guangxi410128, People's Republic of China.
(3)Centro Regional de Investigación Carillanca, Instituto de Investigaciones
Agropecuarias (INIA), Temuco, La Araucanía4880000, Chile.
(4)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition Control, Subtropical
Institute of Animal Nutrition and Feed, College of Animal Science, South China
Agricultural University, Guangzhou, Guangdong510642, People's Republic of China.

The present study investigated the association between fibre degradation and the 
concentration of dissolved molecular hydrogen (H2) in the rumen. Napier grass
(NG) silage and corn stover (CS) silage were compared as forages with contrasting
structures and degradation patterns. In the first experiment, CS silage had
greater 48-h DM, neutral-detergent fibre (NDF) and acid-detergent fibre
degradation, and total gas and methane (CH4) volumes, and lower 48-h H2 volume
than NG silage in 48-h in vitro incubations. In the second experiment,
twenty-four growing beef bulls were fed diets including 55 % (DM basis) NG or CS 
silages. Bulls fed the CS diet had greater DM intake (DMI), average daily gain,
total-tract digestibility of OM and NDF, ruminal dissolved methane (dCH4)
concentration and gene copies of protozoa, methanogens, Ruminococcus albus and R.
flavefaciens, and had lower ruminal dH2 concentration, and molar proportions of
valerate and isovalerate, in comparison with those fed the NG diet. There was a
negative correlation between dH2 concentration and NDF digestibility in bulls fed
the CS diet, and a lack of relationship between dH2 concentration and NDF
digestibility with the NG diet. In summary, the fibre of CS silage was more
easily degraded by rumen microorganisms than that of NG silage. Increased dCH4
concentration with the CS diet presumably led to the decreased ruminal dH2
concentration, which may be helpful for fibre degradation and growth of
fibrolytic micro-organisms in the rumen.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114520002962 
PMID: 32718369 

