
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jun 3;11:1162. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01162. eCollection
2020.

Development of a Novel Metagenomic Biomarker for Prediction of Upper
Gastrointestinal Tract Involvement in Patients With Crohn's Disease.

Kwak MS(1), Cha JM(1), Shin HP(1), Jeon JW(1), Yoon JY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Kyung Hee University Hospital at Gangdong,
College of Medicine, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, South Korea.

The human gut microbiota is an important component in the pathogenesis of Crohn's
disease (CD), promoting host-microbe imbalances and disturbing intestinal and
immune homeostasis. We aimed to assess the potential clinical usefulness of the
colonic tissue microbiome for obtaining biomarkers for upper gastrointestinal
(UGI) tract involvement in CD. We analyzed colonic tissue samples from 26 CD
patients (13 with and 13 without UGI involvement at diagnosis) from the
Inflammatory Bowel Disease Multi-Omics Database. QIIME1, DiTaxa, linear
discriminant analysis effect size (LEfSe), and PICRUSt2 methods were used to
examine microbial dysbiosis. Linear support vector machine (SVM) and random
forest classifier (RF) algorithms were used to identify the UGI tract
involvement-associated biomarkers. There were no statistically significant
differences in community richness, phylogenetic diversity, and phylogenetic
distance between the two groups of CD patients. DiTaxa analysis predicted
significant association of the species Ruminococcus torques with UGI involvement,
which was confirmed by the LEfSe analysis (P = 0.025). For the feature ranking
method in both linear SVM and RF models, the species R. torques and age at
diagnosis contributed to the combined models. The L-methionine biosynthesis III
(P = 0.038) and palmitate biosynthesis II (P = 0.050) were under-represented in
CD with UGI involvement. These findings suggest that R. torques might serve as a 
novel potential biomarker for UGI involvement in CD and its correlations, in
addition to a range of bacterial species. The mechanisms of interaction between
hosts and R. torques should be further investigated.

Copyright Â© 2020 Kwak, Cha, Shin, Jeon and Yoon.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01162 
PMCID: PMC7283919
PMID: 32582102 

