
1. Animals (Basel). 2020 Jul 24;10(8). pii: E1261. doi: 10.3390/ani10081261.

Diet with a High Proportion of Rice Alters Profiles and Potential Function of
Digesta-Associated Microbiota in the Ileum of Goats.

Wang K(1), Ren A(1), Zheng M(1), Jiao J(1), Yan Q(1), Zhou C(1)(2), Tan Z(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Agro-Ecological Processes in Subtropical Region,
National Engineering Laboratory for Pollution Control and Waste Utilization in
Livestock and Poultry Production, Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal
Nutrition & Physiology and Metabolism, Institute of Subtropical Agriculture, The 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changsha 410125, China.
(2)Hunan Co-Innovation Center of Animal Production Safety, CICAPS, Changsha
410128, China.

Effects of a high proportion of concentrate in the diet on the ileal microbiota
and metabolites in small ruminants are rarely reported. This study was designed
to investigate the ileal microbiota and its relationship with host metabolic
function in goats and aimed to elucidate the mechanisms involving in the ileal
adaptation to a diet containing a high proportion of rice. Sixteen goats were
equally divided into two groups and fed a diet with a normal concentrate
proportion (NC, 55% concentrate) or a high-concentrate diet (HC, 90%
concentrate). Results showed that the HC diet decreased bacterial diversity and
elevated the abundance of five genera (Clostridium_sensu_stricto_1,
Eubacterium_nodatum_group, Ruminococcus_gauvreauii_group,
Eubacterium_coprostanoligenes_group and Ruminococcus 1), but reduced the number
of Anaerotruncus. Microbial functional potentials indicated that the HC diet
activated the pathways related to metabolism of carbohydrate, glycan, lipid and
vitamins, but inhibited the pathways associated with cell motility and signal
transduction. The activities of amylase and alkaline phosphatase were greater (p 
< 0.05) in the intestinal digesta of the HC-fed goats. However, there were no
differences in the villus height, crypt depth and the ratio of villus height to
crypt depth in the ileum between the two groups. These results indicate that the 
HC diet alters the bacterial community and pathways related to the metabolism of 
dietary nutrients and cell motility and signal transduction of bacteria in the
ileum of goats.

DOI: 10.3390/ani10081261 
PMCID: PMC7460243
PMID: 32722283 

