
1. J Anim Sci. 2019 Dec 17;97(12):4999-5008. doi: 10.1093/jas/skz352.

Corn oil supplementation enhances hydrogen use for biohydrogenation, inhibits
methanogenesis, and alters fermentation pathways and the microbial community in
the rumen of goats.

Zhang XM(1), Medrano RF(2)(3), Wang M(1), Beauchemin KA(4), Ma ZY(1), Wang
R(1)(3), Wen JN(1)(3), Lukuyu BA(5), Tan ZL(1), He JH(3).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory for Agro-Ecological Processes in Subtropical Region,
National Engineering Laboratory for Pollution Control and Waste Utilization in
Livestock and Poultry Production, South Central Experimental Station of Animal
Nutrition and Feed Science in the Ministry of Agriculture, Hunan Provincial
Engineering Research Center for Healthy Livestock and Poultry Production,
Institute of Subtropical Agriculture, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changsha,
Hunan, China.
(2)College of Veterinary Science and Medicine, Central Luzon State University,
Science City of Muñoz, Nueva Ecija, Philippines.
(3)College of Animal Science and Technology, Hunan Agricultural University,
Changsha, Hunan, China.
(4)Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Lethbridge Research and Development Centre, 
Lethbridge, Canada.
(5)International livestock Research Institute, Nairobi, Kenya.

Enteric methane (CH4) emissions are not only an important source of greenhouse
gases but also a loss of dietary energy in livestock. Corn oil (CO) is rich in
unsaturated fatty acid with >50% PUFA, which may enhance ruminal biohydrogenation
of unsaturated fatty acids, leading to changes in ruminal H2 metabolism and
methanogenesis. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of CO
supplementation of a diet on CH4 emissions, nutrient digestibility, ruminal
dissolved gases, fermentation, and microbiota in goats. Six female goats were
used in a crossover design with two dietary treatments, which included control
and CO supplementation (30 g/kg DM basis). CO supplementation did not alter
total-tract organic matter digestibility or populations of predominant ruminal
fibrolytic microorganisms (protozoa, fungi, Ruminococcus albus, Ruminococcus
flavefaciens, and Fibrobacter succinogenes), but reduced enteric CH4 emissions
(g/kg DMI, -15.1%, P = 0.003). CO supplementation decreased ruminal dissolved
hydrogen (dH2, P < 0.001) and dissolved CH4 (P < 0.001) concentrations,
proportions of total unsaturated fatty acids (P < 0.001) and propionate (P =
0.015), and increased proportions of total SFAs (P < 0.001) and acetate (P <
0.001), and acetate to propionate ratio (P = 0.038) in rumen fluid. CO
supplementation decreased relative abundance of family
Bacteroidales_BS11_gut_group (P = 0.032), increased relative abundance of family 
Rikenellaceae (P = 0.021) and Lachnospiraceae (P = 0.025), and tended to increase
relative abundance of genus Butyrivibrio_2 (P = 0.06). Relative abundance (P =
0.09) and 16S rRNA gene copies (P = 0.043) of order Methanomicrobiales, and
relative abundance of genus Methanomicrobium (P = 0.09) also decreased with CO
supplementation, but relative abundance (P = 0.012) and 16S rRNA gene copies (P =
0.08) of genus Methanobrevibacter increased. In summary, CO supplementation
increased rumen biohydrogenatation by facilitating growth of biohydrogenating
bacteria of family Lachnospiraceae and genus Butyrivibrio_2 and may have enhanced
reductive acetogenesis by facilitating growth of family Lachnospiraceae. In
conclusion, dietary supplementation of CO led to a shift of fermentation pathways
that enhanced acetate production and decreased rumen dH2 concentration and CH4
emissions.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
American Society of Animal Science. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jas/skz352 
PMCID: PMC6915217 [Available on 2020-12-17]
PMID: 31740932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

