
1. Animal. 2020 Jun;14(6):1176-1183. doi: 10.1017/S1751731119002969. Epub 2019 Dec
16.

Branched-chain volatile fatty acids and folic acid accelerated the growth of
Holstein dairy calves by stimulating nutrient digestion and rumen metabolism.

Liu YR(1), Du HS(1), Wu ZZ(1), Wang C(1), Liu Q(1), Guo G(1), Huo WJ(1), Zhang
YL(1), Pei CX(1), Zhang SL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Nutrition and Feed Science, College of Animal Science and
Veterinary Medicine, Shanxi Agricultural University, Taigu030801, Shanxi
Province, P. R. China.

The combined addition of branched-chain volatile fatty acids (BCVFAs) and folic
acid (FA) could improve growth performance and nutrient utilization by
stimulating ruminal microbial growth and enzyme activity. This study was
conducted to evaluate the effects of BCVFA and FA addition on growth performance,
ruminal fermentation, nutrient digestibility, microbial enzyme activity,
microflora and excretion of urinary purine derivatives (PDs) in calves.
Thirty-six Chinese Holstein weaned calves (60 ± 5.4 days of age and 107 ± 4.7 kg 
of BW) were assigned to one of four groups in a randomized block design.
Treatments were control (without additives), FA (with 10 mg FA/kg dietary DM),
BCVFA (with 5 g BCVFA/kg dietary DM) and the combined addition of FA and BCVFA
(10 mg/kg DM of FA and 5 g/kg DM of BCVFA). Supplements were hand-mixed into the 
top one-third of total mixed ration. Dietary concentrate to maize silage ratio
was 50 : 50 on a DM basis. Dietary BCVFA or FA addition did not affect dry matter
intake but increased average daily gain (ADG) and feed conversion efficiency.
Ruminal pH and ammonia N were lower, and total volatile fatty acids (VFAs)
concentration was higher for BCVFA or FA addition than for control. Dietary BCVFA
or FA addition did not affect acetate proportion but decreased propionate
proportion and increased acetate to propionate ratio. Total tract digestibility
of DM, organic matter, CP and NDF was higher for BCVFA or FA addition than for
control. Dietary BCVFA or FA addition increased activity of carboxymethyl
cellulase and cellobiase, population of total bacteria, fungi, Ruminococcus
albus, R. flavefaciens, Fibrobacter succinogenes and Prevotella ruminicola as
well as total PD excretion. Ruminal xylanase, pectinase and protease activity and
Butyrivibrio fibrisolvens population were increased by BCVFA addition, whereas
population of protozoa and methanogens was increased by FA addition. The BCVFA × 
FA interaction was significant for acetate to propionate ratio, cellobiase
activity and total PD excretion, and these variables increased more with FA
addition in diet without BCVFA than in diet with BCVFA. The data indicated that
supplementation with BCVFA or FA increased ADG, nutrient digestibility, ruminal
total VFA concentration and microbial protein synthesis by stimulating ruminal
microbial growth and enzyme activity in calves.

DOI: 10.1017/S1751731119002969 
PMID: 31840620 

