
1. Animal. 2020 Jun 25:1-8. doi: 10.1017/S1751731120001603. [Epub ahead of print]

Effects of guanidinoacetic acid supplementation on growth performance, nutrient
digestion, rumen fermentation and blood metabolites in Angus bulls.

Li SY(1), Wang C(1), Wu ZZ(1), Liu Q(1), Guo G(1), Huo WJ(1), Zhang J(1), Chen
L(1), Zhang YL(1), Pei CX(1), Zhang SL(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Shanxi Agricultural
University, Taigu, 030801, Shanxi Province, P. R. China.

Guanidinoacetic acid (GAA) can improve the growth performance of bulls. This
study investigated the influences of GAA addition on growth, nutrient digestion, 
ruminal fermentation and serum metabolites in bulls. Forty-eight Angus bulls were
randomly allocated to experimental treatments, that is, control, low-GAA (LGAA), 
medium-GAA (MGAA) and high-GAA (HGAA), with GAA supplementation at 0, 0.3, 0.6
and 0.9 g/kg DM, respectively. Bulls were fed a basal diet containing 500 g/kg DM
concentrate and 500 g/kg DM roughage. The experimental period was 104 days, with 
14 days for adaptation and 90 days for data collection. Bulls in the MGAA and
HGAA groups had higher DM intake and average daily gain than bulls in the LGAA
and control groups. The feed conversion ratio was lowest in MGAA and highest in
the control. Bulls receiving 0.9 g/kg DM GAA addition had higher digestibility of
DM, organic matter, NDF and ADF than bulls in other groups. The digestibility of 
CP was higher for HGAA than for LGAA and control. The ruminal pH was lower for
MGAA, and the total volatile fatty acid concentration was greater for MGAA and
HGAA than for the control. The acetate proportion and acetate-to-propionate ratio
were lower for MGAA than for LGAA and control. The propionate proportion was
higher for MGAA than for control. Bulls receiving GAA addition showed decreased
ruminal ammonia N. Bulls in MGAA and HGAA had higher cellobiase, pectinase and
protease activities and Butyrivibrio fibrisolvens, Prevotella ruminicola and
Ruminobacter amylophilus populations than bulls in LGAA and control. However, the
total protozoan population was lower for MGAA and HGAA than for LGAA and control.
The total bacterial and Ruminococcus flavefaciens populations increased with GAA 
addition. The blood level of creatine was higher for HGAA, and the activity of
l-arginine glycine amidine transferase was lower for MGAA and HGAA, than for
control. The blood activity of guanidine acetate N-methyltransferase and the
level of folate decreased in the GAA addition groups. The results indicated that 
dietary addition of 0.6 or 0.9 g/kg DM GAA improved growth performance, nutrient 
digestion and ruminal fermentation in bulls.

DOI: 10.1017/S1751731120001603 
PMID: 32580813 

