
1. Animal. 2020 Jul;14(7):1438-1446. doi: 10.1017/S175173111900291X. Epub 2019 Dec
19.

Effects of different sources of nitrogen on performance, relative population of
rumen microorganisms, ruminal fermentation and blood parameters in male
feedlotting lambs.

Mahmoudi-Abyane M(1), Alipour D(1), Moghimi HR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Science, Faculty of Agriculture, Bu-Ali Sina University, 
Hamedan, Iran.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Science, Tehran,
Iran.

Slow-release urea (SRU) can substitute dietary protein sources in the diet of
feedlotting ruminant species . However, different SRU structures show varying
results of productive performance. This study was conducted to investigate the
effect of different sources of nitrogen on performance, blood parameter, ruminal 
fermentation and relative population of rumen microorganisms in male Mehraban
lambs. Thirty-five male lambs with an average initial BW of 34.7 ± 1.8 kg were
assigned randomly to five treatments. Diets consisted of concentrate mixture and 
mineral and vitamin supplements plus (1) alfalfa and soybean meal, (2) wheat
straw and soybean meal, (3) wheat straw and urea, (4) wheat straw and Optigen® (a
commercial SRU supplement) and (5) wheat straw and SRU produced in the
laboratory. No statistical difference was observed in animal performance and DM
intake among treatments. The mean value of ruminal pH and ammonia was higher (P <
0.05) for the SRU diet compared with WU diet. The difference in pH is likely to
be due to the higher ammonia level as VFAs concentrations were unchanged. The
level of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) was different among treatments (P = 0.065).
The highest concentration of BUN was recorded in Optigen diet (183.1 mg/l),
whereas the lowest value was recorded in wheat straw-soybean meal diet (147
mg/l). The amount of albumin and total protein was not affected by the
treatments. The relative population of total protozoa, Fibrobacter succinogenes, 
Ruminococcus flavefaciens and Ruminococcus albus in the SRU treatment was higher 
(P < 0.01) than that in urea treatment at 3 h post-feeding. During the period of 
lack of high-quality forage and in order to reduce dietary costs, low-quality
forage with urea sources can be used in the diet. Results of microbial
populations revealed that SRU can be used as a nitrogen source which can
sustainably provide nitrogen for rumen microorganism without negative effects on 
the performance of feedlotting lambs.

DOI: 10.1017/S175173111900291X 
PMID: 31854286 

