
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Sep 8;10(1):14771. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-70724-5.

Human genetic determinants of the gut microbiome and their associations with
health and disease: a phenome-wide association study.

Groot HE(1), van de Vegte YJ(1), Verweij N(1), Lipsic E(1), Karper JC(1), van der
Harst P(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Medical Center Groningen, University of
Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, 9700 RB, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Cardiology, University Medical Center Groningen, University of
Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, 9700 RB, Groningen, The Netherlands.
p.van.der.harst@umcg.nl.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Division Heart and Lungs, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, University of Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
p.van.der.harst@umcg.nl.

Small-scale studies have suggested a link between the human gut microbiome and
highly prevalent diseases. However, the extent to which the human gut microbiome 
can be considered a determinant of disease and healthy aging remains unknown. We 
aimed to determine the spectrum of diseases that are linked to the human gut
microbiome through the utilization of its genetic determinants as a proxy for its
composition. 180 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) known to influence the
human gut microbiome were used to assess the association with health and disease 
outcomes in 422,417 UK Biobank participants. Potential causal estimates were
obtained using a Mendelian randomization (MR) approach. From the total sample
analysed (mean age was 57 ± 8 years), 194,567 (46%) subjects were male. Median
exposure was 66-person years (interquartile range 59-72). Eleven SNPs were
significantly associated with 28 outcomes (Bonferroni corrected P
value < 4.63·10-6) including food intake, hypertension, atopy, COPD, BMI, and
lipids. Multiple SNP MR pointed to a possible causal link between Ruminococcus
flavefaciens and hypertension, and Clostridium and platelet count. Microbiota and
their metabolites might be of importance in the interplay between overlapping
pathophysiological processes, although challenges remain in establishing causal
relationships.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-70724-5 
PMCID: PMC7479141
PMID: 32901066 

