
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Oct;91:103503. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103503. Epub 2020 Apr 
9.

Discovering microbiota and volatile compounds of surströmming, the traditional
Swedish sour herring.

Belleggia L(1), Aquilanti L(1), Ferrocino I(2), Milanović V(1), Garofalo C(1),
Clementi F(1), Cocolin L(3), Mozzon M(1), Foligni R(1), Haouet MN(4), Scuota
S(4), Framboas M(4), Osimani A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Agrarie, Alimentari ed Ambientali, Università
Politecnica delle Marche, via Brecce Bianche, 60131, Ancona, Italy.
(2)Department of Agricultural, Forest, and Food Science, University of Turin,
Largo Paolo Braccini 2, 10095, Grugliasco, Torino, Italy. Electronic address:
ilario.ferrocino@unito.it.
(3)Department of Agricultural, Forest, and Food Science, University of Turin,
Largo Paolo Braccini 2, 10095, Grugliasco, Torino, Italy.
(4)Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale dell'Umbria e delle Marche, via
Salvemini, Perugia, Italy.
(5)Dipartimento di Scienze Agrarie, Alimentari ed Ambientali, Università
Politecnica delle Marche, via Brecce Bianche, 60131, Ancona, Italy. Electronic
address: a.osimani@univpm.it.

In this study, the microbiota of ready-to-eat surströmming from three Swedish
producers were studied using a combined approach. The pH values of the samples
ranged between 6.67 ± 0.01 and 6.98 ± 0.01, whereas their aw values were between 
0.911 ± 0.001 and 0.940 ± 0.001. The acetic acid concentration was between
0.289 ± 0.009 g/100 g and 0.556 ± 0.036 g/100 g. Very low concentrations of
lactic acid were measured. Viable counting revealed the presence of mesophilic
aerobes, mesophilic lactobacilli and lactococci as well as halophilic
lactobacilli and lactococci, coagulase-negative staphylococci, halophilic aerobes
and anaerobes. Negligible counts for Enterobacteriaceae, Pseudomonadaceae and
total eumycetes were observed, whereas no sulfite-reducing anaerobes were
detected. Listeria monocytogenes and Salmonella spp. were absent in all samples. 
Multiplex real-time PCR revealed the absence of the bont/A, bont/B, bont/E,
bont/F, and 4gyrB (CP) genes, which encode botulinic toxins, in all the samples
analyzed. Metagenomic sequencing revealed the presence of a core microbiota
dominated by Halanaerobium praevalens, Alkalibacterium gilvum, Carnobacterium
spp., Tetragenococcus halophilus, Clostridiisalibacter spp. and
Porphyromonadaceae. Psychrobacter celer, Ruminococcaceae, Marinilactibacillus
psychrotolerans, Streptococcus infantis and Salinivibrio costicola were detected 
as minor OTUs. GC-MS analysis of volatile components revealed the massive
presence of trimethylamine and sulphur compounds. Moreover, 1,2,4-trithiolane,
phenols, ketones, aldehydes, alcohols, esters and long chain aliphatic
hydrocarbons were also detected. The data obtained allowed pro-technological
bacteria, which are well-adapted to saline environments, to be discovered for the
first time. Further analyses are needed to better clarify the extent of the
contribution of either the microbiota or autolytic enzymes of the fish flesh in
the aroma definition.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103503 
PMID: 32539969 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no conflict of interests. Regarding the manuscript titled “Discovering
microbiota and volatile compounds of surströmming, the traditional Swedish sour
herring” submitted for publication in Food Microbiology, the authors declare that
NO conflict of interest exists.

