
1. Eur J Med Chem. 2020 Sep 19;207:112848. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2020.112848. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Structure-guided optimization and mechanistic study of a class of
quinazolinone-threonine hybrids as antibacterial ThrRS inhibitors.

Guo J(1), Chen B(1), Yu Y(1), Cheng B(1), Ju Y(1), Tang J(1), Cai Z(1), Gu Q(1), 
Xu J(1), Zhou H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center for Drug Discovery and Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Chiral Molecule and Drug Discovery, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China.
(2)Research Center for Drug Discovery and Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Chiral Molecule and Drug Discovery, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China. Electronic address:
zhuihao@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (aaRSs) are an attractive class of antibacterial drug 
targets due to their essential roles in protein translation. While most
traditional aaRS inhibitors target the binding pockets of substrate amino acids
and/or ATP, we recently developed a class of novel tRNA-amino acid dual-site
inhibitors including inhibitor 3
((2S,3R)-2-amino-N-((E)-4-(6,7-dichloro-4-oxoquinazolin-3(4H)-yl)but-2-en-1-yl)-3
-hydroxybutanamide) against threonyl-tRNA synthetase (ThrRS). Here, the binding
modes and structure-activity relationships (SARs) of these inhibitors were
analyzed by the crystal structures of Salmonella enterica ThrRS (SeThrRS) in
complex with three of them. Based on the cocrystal structures, twelve
quinazolinone-threonine hybrids were designed and synthesized, and their
affinities, enzymatic inhibitory activities, and cellular potencies were
evaluated. The best derivative 8g achieved a Kd value of 0.40 μM, an IC50 value
of 0.50 μM against SeThrRS and MIC values of 16-32 μg/mL against the tested
bacterial strains. The cocrystal structure of the SeThrRS-8g complex revealed
that 8g induced a bended conformation for Met332 by forming hydrophobic
interactions, which better mimicked the binding of tRNAThr to ThrRS. Moreover,
the inhibitory potency of 8g was less impaired than a reported ATP competitive
inhibitor at high concentrations of ATP, supporting our hypothesis that tRNA site
inhibitors are likely superior to ATP site inhibitors in vivo, where ATP
typically reaches millimolar concentrations.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2020.112848 
PMID: 32980741 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

