
1. Brain Neurosci Adv. 2020 Aug 19;4:2398212820949353. doi:
10.1177/2398212820949353. eCollection 2020 Jan-Dec.

Mild inflammation causes a reduction in resting-state amplitude of low-frequency 
fluctuation in healthy adult males.

Stefanov K(1), McLean J(2), Allan B(2), Cavanagh J(1), Krishnadas R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Infection, Immunity & Inflammation, University of Glasgow,
Glasgow, UK.
(2)Institute of Neurological Sciences, Queen Elizabeth University Hospital,
Glasgow, UK.
(3)Institute of Neuroscience & Psychology, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.

Systemic inflammation has been associated with negative mood states and human
sickness behaviour. Previous studies have shown an association between systemic
inflammation and changes in task-related blood-oxygen-level-dependent activity
and functional connectivity within large-scale networks. However, no study has
examined the effect of inflammation on the magnitude of
blood-oxygen-level-dependent low-frequency fluctuations at rest. We used a
double-blind placebo-controlled crossover design to randomise 20 male subjects
(aged 20-50 years) to receive either a Salmonella typhi vaccine or a placebo
saline injection at two separate sessions. All participants underwent a
resting-state functional magnetic resonance scan and a measure of inflammation
(interleukin 6) and mood (Profile of Mood States) 3 h after injection. We
compared the whole brain amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations between the
vaccine and placebo conditions using a repeated measures design. Vaccine
condition was associated with greater interleukin 6 levels (p < 0.001). Vaccine
condition was also associated with lower amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations 
in the right and left frontal pole, superior frontal gyrus, paracingulate gyrus
(Cluster 1) and the right mid and inferior frontal gyrus (Cluster 2) (p < 0.001, 
false discovery rate corrected). Lower amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations
pertaining to first cluster correlated with greater total Profile of Mood States 
score (worse mood) (r = -0.38; p = 0.04). These results imply possible
excitation/inhibition imbalance mechanisms during inflammation that may be a
relevant target in psychiatric disease, especially mood disorders.

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1177/2398212820949353 
PMCID: PMC7479852
PMID: 32954008 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interests: The
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the
research, authorship and/or publication of this article.

