
1. AIMS Public Health. 2020 Aug 6;7(3):634-649. doi: 10.3934/publichealth.2020050.
eCollection 2020.

Risk assessment of waterborne infections in Enugu State, Nigeria: Implications of
household water choices, knowledge, and practices.

Okpasuo OJ(1), Aguzie IO(1), Joy AT(2), Okafor FC(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Parasitology and Public Health Research Laboratory, University of Nigeria,
Nsukka, Nigeria.
(2)Science Laboratory Technology Department, Federal Polytechnic, Idah, Kogi
State, Nigeria.
(3)Ecology and Environmental Biology, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Nigeria.

This research investigated the prevalence of waterborne infections (WBIs) and the
risks associated with household drinking water choices, knowledge, and practices.
A cross-sectional multi-stage sampling research design was employed. A
well-structured questionnaire was used to sample 403 individuals representing 115
household; and stool samples collected and subjected to standard parasitic and
bacterial diagnostic methods. From the 403 samples, 344 (85.4%) were positive for
at least one waterborne pathogen of nine isolates: E. coli (38.0%), Giardia
lamblia (35.2%), E. histolytica (33.0%), Salmonella typhi (19.9%), Proteus spp.
(13.2%), Shigella dysentery (9.4%), Klebsiella spp. (7.4%), Enterobacter spp.
(5.5%), and Cryptosporidium spp. (5.2%). Prevalence of WBIs was >75% in all age
groups, but decreased with age. Prevalence of WBIs was >80% in all communities.
Risk was not biased by gender. Odds of infection from public well (OR = 2.487;
CI95: 1.296-4.774) and borehole/vendor (OR = 2.175; CI95: 1.231-3.843) users was 
over two times greater than non-users. Risk of WBDs was significantly reduced by 
60% in sachet water drinkers (OR = 0.392; CI95: 0.217-0.709; p < 0.05).
Surprisingly, river/stream water users had a significant reduced risk of WBDs
than non-users (OR = 0.335; CI95: 0.150-0.749; p < 0.05). Poor hygiene was the
most important determinant of WBIs; poor sanitary practice increased odds of WBIs
by 400% (OR = 4.945; CI95: 2.358-10.371; p < 0.05). This study shows that most
household water choices are vulnerable to contamination at many points in their
journey from source to mouth; and advocates adequate provision of safe water,
"point of use" household water treatment, and good storage methods to effectively
curb WBIs.

Â© 2020 the Author(s), licensee AIMS Press.

DOI: 10.3934/publichealth.2020050 
PMCID: PMC7505784
PMID: 32968683 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: The authors declare that
there was no conflict of interest.

