
1. Heliyon. 2020 Aug 28;6(8):e04810. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e04810. eCollection
2020 Aug.

Development of Salmonella Enteritidis vaccine candidate based on streptomycin
independent suppressor and metabolic drift rifampicin resistance-attenuating
markers.

Shehata AA(1)(2), Tarabees R(3), Elsayed M(3), Wareth G(4)(5), Basiouni S(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Avian and Rabbit Diseases Department, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Sadat City, 32897, Sadat City, Egypt.
(2)Research and Development Section, PerNaturam GmbH, Gödenroth, Germany.
(3)Department of Bacteriology, Mycology and Immunology, Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, University of Sadat City, 32897, Sadat City, Egypt.
(4)Friedrich-Loeffler-Institut, The Institute of Bacterial Infections and
Zoonoses, 07743, Jena, Germany.
(5)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Benha University, Moshtohor, 13736, Toukh,
Egypt.
(6)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University Regensburg, Regensburg,
Germany.

Salmonella is one of the most frequent food-borne pathogens and remains public
health threat globally. The control of Salmonella in poultry, the main reservoir 
of non-typhoidal salmonellae, is a fundamental approach to ensure the safety of
poultry products for human consumption. In the present study, a new live
attenuated Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis vaccine candidate containing
three attenuating markers based on streptomycin-independent (Sm-id) suppressor,
and metabolic drift antibiotic resistance (MD- "res") was developed. The
streptomycin dependent (Smd) mutants were derived from Salmonella Enteritidis
wild-type strain using streptomycin. Then the Sm-id mutants were derived from the
isolated Smd mutants and designated "Smd→Sm-id". A third MD- "res" marker was
generated from Smd→Sm-id using rifampicin (Rif) and designated "Smd→Sm-id→Rif".
The colony sizes of these mutants were stable after more than 50 serial passages 
on blood agar; reversion to virulence can be almost excluded. The safety and
efficacy of Smd→Sm-id and Smd→Sm-id→Rif were evaluated in one-day-old commercial 
layer chicks. Both mutants proved to be safe in terms of clinical signs,
mortalities, lesion scores of visceral organs and rapid clearance when
administered orally at a dose of 108 colony forming unit (CFU), whereas birds
inoculated with 108 CFU Salmonella Enteritidis wild-type strain showed diarrhea, 
mortalities (3/40) and necrosis in liver and spleen. Chickens vaccinated with the
developed mutants showed no seroconversion; however, wild-type strain induced a
significant seroconversion at 3-week-postvaccination (wpv). The developed mutants
protected chickens against challenge with 108 CFU of Salmonella Enteritidis
wild-type strain at 3-wpv. Vaccinated birds showed neither clinical signs nor
mortalities during two-week post-challenge. In addition, the challenge strain
could not be detected in pooled liver and spleen samples (0/5) at 7th day
post-inoculation (dpi). However, non-vaccinated challenged birds showed diarrhea 
and the challenge strain was re-isolated from pooled liver and spleen samples
(3/5) at 7th dpi. In conclusion, the developed mutants are safe and fully
protected immunized chickens following heterologous challenge. It is obvious that
the genetic characterization of these mutants and evaluation of different
vaccination regimes are still in demand.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e04810 
PMCID: PMC7475269
PMID: 32923728 

