
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Sep 12. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02178-x. [Epub ahead of
print]

Prevalence and Antimicrobial Resistance of Salmonella spp. From Irrigation Water 
in Two Major Sources in Jordan.

Burjaq SZ(1), Abu-Romman SM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Analysis, Faculty of Science, Al-Balqa Applied
University, P.O. Box 206, Salt, 19117, Jordan. shereen.burjaq@bau.edu.jo.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Agricultural Technology, Al-Balqa
Applied University, Salt, Jordan.

Irrigation water could be a direct source of pathogenic microorganisms that
contaminates fresh produce and causes human diseases. In this study, we evaluated
the prevalence of Salmonella spp. and its serotypes Typhimurium and Enteritidis, 
antimicrobial susceptibility and multidrug resistance (MDR) status, and seasonal 
variation, of Salmonella spp. in irrigation water of King Abdullah Canal (KAC)
and Wadi Shueib (WS) in Jordan. The study results demonstrated that 32.2% (29/90)
of irrigation water was contaminated with Salmonella spp. and the irrigation
water of WS was found highly contaminated (62.1%) with Salmonella spp. compared
to KAC (37.9%). In addition, higher prevalence of Salmonella were recorded in
spring (33.3%) and summer (36.3%) seasons, compared to winter seasons. Among the 
contaminated irrigation water samples, prevalence of Salmonella Typhimurium
serotype was found in (37.9%) (11/29) samples, while S. Enteritidis was absent.
The most common antimicrobial resistance of Salmonella isolates was observed as
tetracycline (11/29, 37.9%) and 6 (20.7%) Salmonella Typhimurium isolates were
found multidrug resistance (MDR). Thus, this study results confirmed that the
irrigation water was contaminated with pathogenic MDR Salmonella spp.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02178-x 
PMID: 32918569 

