
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 1;8(9). pii: E1336. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091336.

Emergence of Resistance to Fluoroquinolones and Third-Generation Cephalosporins
in Salmonella Typhi in Lahore, Pakistan.

Rasheed F(1), Saeed M(2), Alikhan NF(3), Baker D(3), Khurshid M(2), Ainsworth
EV(3), Turner AK(3), Imran AA(1), Rasool MH(2), Saqalein M(2), Nisar MA(2),
Fayyaz Ur Rehman M(4), Wain J(3)(5), Yasir M(3), Langridge GC(3), Ikram A(6).

Author information: 
(1)Allama Iqbal Medical College & Jinnah Hospital (AIMC&JHL), Lahore 54000,
Pakistan.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Government College University, Faisalabad 38000,
Pakistan.
(3)Quadram Institute Bioscience, Norwich Research Park, Norwich NR4 7UQ, UK.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Sargodha, Sargodha 40100, Pakistan.
(5)Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich Research Park,
Norwich NR4 7TJ, UK.
(6)National Institute of Health, Islamabad 45710, Pakistan.

Extensively drug-resistant (XDR) Salmonella Typhi has been reported in Sindh
province of Pakistan since 2016. The potential for further spread is of serious
concern as remaining treatment options are severely limited. We report the
phenotypic and genotypic characterization of 27 XDR S. Typhi isolated from
patients attending Jinnah Hospital, Lahore, Pakistan. Isolates were identified by
biochemical profiling; antimicrobial susceptibility was determined by a modified 
Kirby-Bauer method. These findings were confirmed using Illumina whole genome
nucleotide sequence data. All sequences were compared to the outbreak strain from
Southern Pakistan and typed using the S. Typhi genotyping scheme. All isolates
were confirmed by a sequence analysis to harbor an IncY plasmid and the CTX-M-15 
ceftriaxone resistance determinant. All isolates were of the same genotypic
background as the outbreak strain from Sindh province. We report the first
emergence of XDR S. Typhi in Punjab province of Pakistan confirmed by whole
genome sequencing.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091336 
PMID: 32883020 

