
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Sep 26. pii: S0141-8130(20)34535-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.09.176. [Epub ahead of print]

Chitosan nanoparticles as edible surface coating agent to preserve the fresh-cut 
bell pepper (Capsicum annuum L. var. grossum (L.) Sendt).

Hu X(1), Saravanakumar K(1), Sathiyaseelan A(1), Wang MH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biotechnology, College of Biomedical Sciences, Kangwon
National University, Chuncheon 200-701, South Korea.
(2)Department of Medical Biotechnology, College of Biomedical Sciences, Kangwon
National University, Chuncheon 200-701, South Korea. Electronic address:
mhwang@kangwon.ac.kr.

The work synthesized chitosan nanoparticle (CSNPs) by ionic gelation method using
sodium triphosphate pentabasic (TPP) and applied as nano-coating agent to extend 
the shelf life of fresh cut bell pepper (FCP) by preventing the microbial
contaminations. The CSNPs were circular shaped and 22.55 ± 1.69 d.nm sized with
ζ-potential of 45.10 ± 1.42 mV confirmed by UHR-SEM, FE-TEM with EDS, and
ζ-potential size analyses. The functional group changes were determined by XRD
and FT-IR analyses. The antioxidant activity of CSNPs was analysed in terms of
DPPH and ABTS scavenging activities. The CSNPs at 1% and 3% showed MIC and MBC
respectively against all tested bacteria. The MBC of CSNPs exhibited the
promising anti- biofilm activity. Therefore, the 3% of CSNPs was used to prepare 
the chitosan nano-coating (CSNC), and applied on the surface of FCP to prevent
the microbial contaminations such as fungi, bacteria including Listeria
monocytogenes and Salmonella enterica. The experimental results showed that the
FCP treated with CSNC maintained for 12 days at 5 °C without loss of weight, and 
sensory quality.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.09.176 
PMID: 32991893 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

