
1. J Food Sci. 2020 Sep 23. doi: 10.1111/1750-3841.15459. [Epub ahead of print]

Propidium monoazide for viable Salmonella enterica detection by PCR and LAMP
assays in comparison to RNA-based RT-PCR, RT-LAMP, and culture-based assays.

Techathuvanan C(1), D'Souza DH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science, University of Tennessee, 2605 River Drive,
Knoxville, TN, 37996-4591, U.S.A.

Rapid and sensitive detection of live/infectious foodborne pathogens is urgently 
needed in order to prevent outbreaks and food recalls. This study aimed to (1)
evaluate the incorporation of propidium monoazide (PMA) into PCR or LAMP assays
to selectively detect viable Salmonella Enteritidis following sublethal heat or
UV treatment, and autoclave sterilization; and (2) compare the detection of
PMA-PCR and PMA-LAMP to DNA-based PCR and LAMP (without PMA), RNA-based RT-PCR
and RT-LAMP, and culture-based methods. Nucleic acids (DNA or RNA) from 1-mL S.
Enteritidis samples were used for PCR, RT-PCR, LAMP, and RT-LAMP assays. Serially
diluted samples were plated on Xylose Lysine Tergitol-4 agar for cultural
enumeration. Comparable detection of overnight cultured S. Enteritidis was
obtained by PMA-PCR, PCR, and RT-PCR, though 1 to 2 log less sensitive than
cultural assays. PMA-LAMP and RT-LAMP showed similar detection of overnight
cultures, being 1 to 2 log less sensitive than the LAMP assay, and ∼4 log less
than culture-based detection. Autoclaved S. Enteritidis did not test positive by 
RNA-based methods or PMA-PCR, but PMA-LAMP showed detection of 1 log CFU/mL.
PMA-PCR and RT-PCR showed comparable detection of sublethal heat-treated cells to
cultural assays, while PMA-LAMP showed 1 to 2 log less detection. Our results
suggest that PMA-PCR and PMA-LAMP assays are not suitable for selective viable
cell detection after UV treatment. While PMA-LAMP assay needs optimization,
PMA-PCR shows promise for live/viable S. Enteritidis detection. PMA-PCR shows
potential for routine testing in the food industry with results within 1-day,
albeit depending on the inactivation method employed.

© 2020 Institute of Food Technologists®.

DOI: 10.1111/1750-3841.15459 
PMID: 32964461 

