
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Dec;92:103585. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103585. Epub 2020 Jul 
2.

Proteomics study unveils ROS balance in acid-adapted Salmonella Enteritidis.

Hu S(1), Yu Y(2), Lv Z(3), Shen J(4), Ke Y(5), Xiao X(6).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Epidemiology of Shenzhen, Shenzhen Center for
Disease Control and Prevention, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province, 518055, PR
China; School of Food Science and Engineering, South China University of
Technology, Guangzhou City, Guangdong Province, 510640, PR China; Beijing
Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health, College of
Veterinary Medicine, China Agricultural University, Beijing, 10083, PR China.
(2)School of Food Science and Engineering, South China University of Technology, 
Guangzhou City, Guangdong Province, 510640, PR China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Molecular Epidemiology of Shenzhen, Shenzhen Center for
Disease Control and Prevention, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province, 518055, PR
China.
(4)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Veterinary Medicine, China Agricultural University, Beijing, 10083, PR
China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Molecular Epidemiology of Shenzhen, Shenzhen Center for
Disease Control and Prevention, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province, 518055, PR
China. Electronic address: keyke@szu.edu.cn.
(6)School of Food Science and Engineering, South China University of Technology, 
Guangzhou City, Guangdong Province, 510640, PR China. Electronic address:
fexxl@scut.edu.cn.

Salmonella Enteritidis is a major cause of foodborne gastroenteritis and is thus 
a persistent threat to global public health. The acid adaptation response helps
Salmonella survive exposure to gastric environment during ingestion. In a
previous study we highlighted the damage caused to cell membrane and the
regulation of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) in S. Enteritidis. In
this study, we applied both physiologic and iTRAQ analyses to explore the
regulatory mechanism of acid resistance in Salmonella. It was found that after S.
Enteritidis was subject to a 1 h period of acid adaptation at pH 5.5, an
additional 1 h period of acid shock stress at pH 3.0 caused less Salmonella cell 
death than in non-acid adapted Salmonella cells. Although there were no
significant differences between adapted and non-adapted cells in terms of cell
membrane damage (e.g., membrane permeability or lipid peroxidation) after 30 min,
intracellular ROS level in acid adapted cells was dramatically reduced compared
to that in non-acid adapted cells, indicating that acid adaption promoted less
ROS generation or increased the ability of ROS scavenging with little reduction
in the integrity of the cell membrane. These findings were confirmed via an iTRAQ
analysis. The adapted cells were shown to trigger incorporation of exogenous
long-chain fatty acids into the cellular membrane, resulting in a different
membrane lipid profile and promoting survival rate under acid stress. S.
Enteritidis experiences oxidative damage and iron deficiency under acid stress,
but after acid adaption S. Enteritidis cells were able to balance their
concentrations of intracellular ROS. Specifically, SodAB consumed the free
protons responsible for forming reactive oxygen intermediates (ROIs) and KatE
protected cells from the toxic effects of ROIs. Additionally, acid-labile
proteins released free unbound iron promoting ferroptotic metabolism, and NADH
reduced GSSH to G-SH, protecting cells from acid/oxidative stress.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103585 
PMID: 32950169 

