
1. Poult Sci. 2020 Oct;99(10):4741-4749. doi: 10.1016/j.psj.2020.06.035. Epub 2020
Jul 3.

Development of a colloidal gold immunochromatographic strip for rapid detection
of Riemerella anatipestifer in ducks.

Han W(1), Chen Z(1), Niu P(1), Ren X(1), Ding C(1), Yu S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Shanghai Veterinary Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural
Sciences (CAAS), Shanghai, China.
(2)Shanghai Veterinary Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural
Sciences (CAAS), Shanghai, China; Jiangsu Agri-animal Husbandry Vocational
College, Veterinary Bio-pharmaceutical, Jiangsu Key Laboratory for High-Tech
Research and Development of Veterinary Biopharmaceuticals, Taizhou, Jiangsu,
China. Electronic address: yus@shvri.ac.cn.

Riemerella anatipestifer is one of the major bacterial pathogens of ducks and
causes significant economic losses in poultry agriculture. Usually, methods for
detecting R. anatipestifer infection need specialized equipment and highly
skilled personnel. In this study, a novel colloidal gold immunochromatographic
strip was developed for rapid detection of R. anatipestifer in ducks. The
monoclonal antibodies 2D5 and 2A6 against R. anatipestifer were used as colloidal
gold-labeled protein and capture protein, respectively, to recognize the bacteria
in tryptic soy broth medium culture and in hearts of infected ducks. The goat
anti-mouse IgG antibody was labeled on nitrocellulose membrane as a control for C
line. The labeling pH was optimized as 10.0, and the concentration of 2D5 labeled
to colloidal gold particles was optimized as 18 μg/mL. The strip specifically
detected serotypes 1, 2, and 10 R. anatipestifer strains and showed no
cross-reaction with Escherichia coli, Salmonella enterica, and Pasteurella
multocida strains. The sensitivity of the strip for detecting R. anatipestifer
was 1.0 × 106 colony forming unit. The strips remained stable for up to 8 mo at
4°C, and the detection can be completed within 15 min. The strip can detect R.
anatipestifer in hearts of the ducks experimentally infected with R.
anatipestifer but not infected with E. coli, which were also confirmed with
bacterial isolation followed by multiplex polymerase chain reaction. These
results suggested that the strips are reliable methods for identification of R.
anatipestifer in laboratories and in duck farms.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psj.2020.06.035 
PMID: 32988508 

