
1. Pak J Biol Sci. 2020 Jan;23(10):1303-1309. doi: 10.3923/pjbs.2020.1303.1309.

Molecular Detection of <i>gyrA</i> Gene in <i>Salmonella enterica</i> serovar
Typhi Isolated from Typhoid Patients in Baghdad.

Habeeb Rasool K, Hammood Hussein N, Mahamed Taha B.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Typhoid fever is endemic in most countries, causing
major public health problems with high morbidity and mortality, the resistance of
Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi (S. Typhi) towards antimicrobials is recently
increased. The aim was to detect the harboring gyrA gene in Typhi Salmonella
enterica serovar.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi isolates were
obtained from the Teaching laboratories of the medical city in Baghdad, the
isolates were obtained from blood specimens from typhoid patients. Colonies of
Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi appeared on CHROM agar and Xylose Lysine
Deoxycholate Agar (XLD) as light mauve to mauve-colored and as red with black
center colonies, respectively. Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) technique was used
to detect the presence of the gyrA gene within the twenty isolates with specific 
primer.
RESULTS: All twenty isolates show the highest resistance rates to Cefazolin 18
(90%), Ciprofloxacin 16 (80%), and Nalidixic acid 15 (75%), while it shows
highest sensitivity rates to Cefepime 18 (90%) and Tobramycin 16 (80%)
antibiotics. The MIC values show equal to or more than breakpoint of Nalidixic
acid and Ciprofloxacin were 15 (75%) and 16 (80%) isolates, respectively.
CONCLUSION: PCR results showed the presence of gyrA gene (488 bp) in 14 (70%) of 
isolates (isolate number 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 18 and 19). On 
the other hand, 6(30%) isolates (isolate numbers 5, 6, 9, 11, 16, 17, and 20)
don't harbor the gyrA gene.

DOI: 10.3923/pjbs.2020.1303.1309 
PMID: 32981264 

