
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Sep 30;9(10). pii: E660. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9100660.

Characterization of Multidrug Resistance Patterns of Emerging Salmonella enterica
Serovar Rissen along the Food Chain in China.

Xu X(1), Biswas S(2), Gu G(3), Elbediwi M(2)(4), Li Y(2)(5), Yue M(2)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology Laboratory, Shanghai Municipal Center for Disease
Control and Prevention, Shanghai 200336, China.
(2)Institute of Veterinary Sciences & Department of Veterinary Medicine, College 
of Animal Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, China.
(3)Guangxi Institute for Product Quality Inspection, Nanning 530007, Guangxi,
China.
(4)Animal Health Research Institute, Agriculture Research Centre, Cairo 11435,
Egypt.
(5)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Preventive Veterinary Medicine, Hangzhou
310058, Zhejiang, China.

Salmonella spp. are recognized as important foodborne pathogens globally.
Salmonella enterica serovar Rissen is one of the important Salmonella serovars
linked with swine products in numerous countries and can transmit to humans by
food chain contamination. Worldwide emerging S. Rissen is considered as one of
the most common pathogens to cause human salmonellosis. The objective of this
study was to determine the antimicrobial resistance properties and patterns of
Salmonella Rissen isolates obtained from humans, animals, animal-derived food
products, and the environment in China. Between 2016 and 2019, a total of 311 S. 
Rissen isolates from different provinces or province-level cities in China were
included here. Bacterial isolates were characterized by serotyping and
antimicrobial susceptibility testing. Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC)
values of 14 clinically relevant antimicrobials were obtained by broth
microdilution method. S. Rissen isolates from humans were found dominant (67%;
208/311). S. Rissen isolates obtained from human patients were mostly found with 
diarrhea. Other S. Rissen isolates were acquired from food (22%; 69/311), animals
(8%; 25/311), and the environment (3%; 9/311). Most of the isolates were
resistant to tetracycline, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, chloramphenicol,
streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and ampicillin. The S. Rissen isolates showed
susceptibility against ceftriaxone, ceftiofur, gentamicin, nalidixic acid,
ciprofloxacin, and azithromycin. In total, 92% of the S. Rissen isolates were
multidrug-resistant and ASSuT (27%), ACT (25%), ACSSuT (22%), ACSSuTAmc (11%),
and ACSSuTFox (7%) patterns were among the most prevalent antibiotic resistance
patterns found in this study. The widespread dissemination of antimicrobial
resistance could have emerged from misuse of antimicrobial agents in animal
husbandry in China. These findings could be useful for rational antimicrobial
usage against Salmonella Rissen infections.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9100660 
PMID: 33007986 

