
1. Int J Microbiol. 2020 Aug 27;2020:9312489. doi: 10.1155/2020/9312489. eCollection
2020.

Evaluation of the Antibacterial Activity of Pleurotus spp. Cultivated on
Different Agricultural Wastes in Chiro, Ethiopia.

Gashaw G(1), Fassil A(1), Redi F(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Natural and Computational Sciences Department of Biology, Oda
Bultum University, P. O. Box: 226, Asebe Teferi, Ethiopia.
(2)College of Natural and Computational Sciences Department of Statistics, Oda
Bultum University, P. O. Box: 226, Asebe Teferi, Ethiopia.

In the present study, mushrooms, Pleurotus ostreatus and Pleurotus florida, were 
cultivated on different agricultural wastes namely coffee straw (CS), pea straw
(PS), Sorghum Grain Residue (SGR), and Wheat Grain (WG) for the evaluation of
antibacterial activity. Antimicrobial activity evaluation was carried out against
human pathogenic microorganisms, namely, Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis,
Streptococcus faecalis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Salmonella typhi by using the
disc diffusion method. Methanolic extracts of P. ostreatus cultivated on a
Sorghum grain residue substrate were recorded for the highest antibacterial
activity against E. coli (19.8 mm) and P. aeruginosa (16.4 mm), and methanolic
extracts of P. florida cultivated on a wheat grain substrate were recorded for
the highest antibacterial activity against E. coli (18.6 mm) and S. faecalis
(14.8 mm). Therefore, results suggested that P. ostreatus and P. florida
cultivated on the coffee straw and Sorghum grain substrate were found with the
highest antimicrobial activity in comparison to other substrates. The results
supported that the methanolic extracts of P. ostreatus and P. florida might
indeed be potential sources of antibacterial agents.

Copyright © 2020 Getachew Gashaw et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/9312489 
PMCID: PMC7474371
PMID: 32908534 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts
of interest.

