
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Aug 25;11:1985. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01985. eCollection 
2020.

Molecular Characteristics and Zoonotic Potential of Salmonella Weltevreden From
Cultured Shrimp and Tilapia in Vietnam and China.

Hounmanou YMG(1), Dalsgaard A(1)(2), Sopacua TF(1), Uddin GMN(1),
Leekitcharoenphon P(3), Hendriksen RS(3), Olsen JE(1), Larsen MH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medical
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)School of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Nanyang Technological
University, Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Research Group for Genomic Epidemiology, National Food Institute, Technical
University of Denmark, Kongens Lyngby, Denmark.

Salmonella Weltevreden is increasingly reported from aquatic environments,
seafood, and patients in several Southeast Asian countries. Using genome-wide
analysis, we characterized S. Weltevreden isolated from cultured shrimp and
tilapia from Vietnam and China to study their genetic characteristics and
relatedness to clinical isolates of S. Weltevreden ST-365. The phylogenetic
analysis revealed up to 312 single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) difference
between tilapia isolates, whereas isolates from shrimp were genetically more
closely related. Epidemiologically unrelated isolates from Vietnam were closely
related to isolates from China, e.g., 20 SNPs differences between strains 28V and
75C. In comparison with strains from other parts of the world, our environmental 
isolates predominantly clustered within the continental South Asia lineage,
constituted mostly of strains from human stool with as low as seven SNPs
difference, e.g., 30V versus Cont_ERR495254. All sequenced isolates were MLST
type ST-365 and contained the major virulence-related genes encoded by the
Salmonella Pathogenicity Islands 1-5. Ten of the isolates harbored the IncFII(S) 
plasmid similar to the virulence genes-mediated plasmid pSPCV of S. Paratyphi C, 
and one isolate had the IncQ1 plasmid on the same contig with strA/B, sul2, and
tetA resistance genes similar to the IncQ1 type, pNUC of S. Typhimurium. A
pangenomic analysis yielded 7891 genes including a core genome of 4892 genes,
with a closely related accessory genome content between clinical and
environmental isolates (Benjamini p > 0.05). In a search for differences that
could explain the higher prevalence of S. Weltevreden in aquatic samples, genomes
were compared with those of other Salmonella enterica serovars. S. Weltevreden
revealed specific regions harboring glpX (Fructose-1;6-bisphosphatase; class II),
rfbC (dTDP-4-dehydrorhamnose 3;5-epimerase), and cmtB (PTS Mannitol-specific
cryptic phosphotransferase enzyme IIA component) involved in carbohydrate
biosynthesis pathways. Our study builds grounds for future experiments to
determine genes or pathways that are essential when S. Weltevreden are in aquatic
environments and microbial interactions providing survival advantages to S.
Weltevreden in such environments.

Copyright Â© 2020 Hounmanou, Dalsgaard, Sopacua, Uddin, Leekitcharoenphon,
Hendriksen, Olsen and Larsen.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01985 
PMCID: PMC7477899
PMID: 32983012 

