
1. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2020 Oct 2;14(10):e0008737. doi:
10.1371/journal.pntd.0008737. [Epub ahead of print]

Vitamin A supplementation boosts control of antibiotic-resistant Salmonella
infection in malnourished mice.

Stull-Lane AR(1), Lokken-Toyli KL(1)(2), Diaz-Ochoa VE(1), Walker GT(1), Cevallos
SA(1), Winter ALN(1), MuÃ±oz ADH(1), Yang GG(1)(3), Velazquez EM(1), Wu CY(4),
Tsolis RM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology & Immunology, School of Medicine, University of
California Davis, Davis, California, United States of America.
(2)Department of Microbiology, New York University, New York, New York, United
States of America.
(3)Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine,
China Agricultural University, Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of California, Davis, 
Sacramento, California, United States of America.

Disseminated disease from non-typhoidal Salmonella enterica strains results in
>20% mortality globally. Barriers to effective treatment include emerging
multidrug resistance, antibiotic treatment failure, and risk factors such as
malnutrition and related micronutrient deficiencies. Individuals in sub-Saharan
Africa are disproportionately affected by non-typhoidal S. enterica bloodstream
infections. To inform a clinical trial in people, we investigated vitamin A as a 
treatment in the context of antibiotic treatment failure in a mouse model of
vitamin A deficiency. Vitamin A-deficient (VAD) mice exhibited higher systemic
bacterial levels with a multidrug-resistant clinical isolate in comparison to
mice on a control diet. Sex-specific differences in vitamin A deficiency and
disseminated infection with S. enterica serotype Typhimurium (S. Typhimurium)
were observed. VAD male mice had decreased weight gain compared to control male
mice. Further, infected VAD male mice had significant weight loss and decreased
survival during the course of infection. These differences were not apparent in
female mice. In a model of disseminated S. Typhimurium infection and antibiotic
treatment failure, we assessed the potential of two consecutive doses of vitamin 
A in alleviating infection in male and female mice on a VAD or control diet. We
found that subtherapeutic antibiotic treatment synergized with vitamin A
treatment in infected VAD male mice, significantly decreasing systemic bacterial 
levels, mitigating weight loss and improving survival. These results suggest that
assessing vitamin A as a therapy during bacteremia in malnourished patients may
lead to improved health outcomes in a subset of patients, especially in the
context of antibiotic treatment failure.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0008737 
PMID: 33006970 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

