
1. J Food Prot. 2020 Sep 25. doi: 10.4315/JFP-20-330. [Epub ahead of print]

The effect of feeding a Saccharomyces cerevisiae fermentation derived postbiotic 
as a pre-harvest food safety hurdle for reducing Salmonella Enteritidis in the
ceca of layer pullets.

Gingerich E(1), Frana T(2), Logue CM(3), Smith DP(4), Pavlidis HO(4), Chaney
WE(5).

Author information: 
(1)Diamond V, Cargill Health Technologies, 2525 60th Ave SW, Cedar Rapids, IA
52404.
(2)Department of Veterinary Diagnostic and Production Animal Medicine, Iowa State
University, 2203 Lloyd Veterinary Medical Center, Ames, IA.
(3)Department of Population Health,College of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Georgia, 501 D.W. Brooks Drive, Athens, GA, USA.
(4)Diamond V, Cargill Health Technologies2525 60th Ave SWCedar Rapids, IA 52404.
(5)Diamond V, Cargill Health Technologies Director, Food Safety Microbiology
Research and Technical Services 2525 60th Ave SW UNITED STATES Cedar Rapids IA
52404 1-432-978-9962.

Salmonella Enteritidis is responsible for a significant proportion of foodborne
Salmonellosis in the United States and continues to be attributable to table
eggs, despite increased federal oversight in recent years. Technologies,
including feed additives, continue to be evaluated for pre-harvest application of
their potential food safety benefits. Here, Diamond V Original XPCâ„¢, a
Saccharomyces cerevisiae fermentation based postbiotic (SCFP), was evaluated for 
its effectiveness in the reduction of Salmonella Enteritidis (SE) colonization in
young layer pullets. A total of forty, day-old Hy-Line W-36 layer pullets were
equally divided and randomly assigned to one of two dietary treatments with SCFP,
or without (PCON) and orally gavaged on Day 28 with 10 6 CFU/mL of SE. Another
twenty, day-old layer pullets were fed the same control feed without SCFP and
blank inoculated on Day 28 with 1 ml of sterile PBS to serve as a negative
control (NCON). Qualitative and quantitative analyses of cecal Salmonella
contents were performed for all birds on Day 32. The prevalence of SE in the ceca
of all directly challenged birds was 100%, however, the SE concentration in birds
fed SCFP diet (3.35 Log 10 CFU/g) was significantly lower ( P <0.0001) than that 
of the PCON birds not fed SCFP (4.49 Log 10 CFU/g). Moreover, the proportion of
SE colonized individuals with enumerable SE concentrations was lower in SCFP fed 
birds (57.9%) when compared to the PCON (95.0%). These data suggest that
inclusion of SCFP in the diet may aid in the reduction of SE within the ceca of
commercial laying hens and could serve as an additional, pre-harvest food safety 
hurdle.

DOI: 10.4315/JFP-20-330 
PMID: 32977331 

