
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Dec;92:103574. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103574. Epub 2020 Jun 
25.

Inactivation of salmonella strains in acidified broth and raw egg yolk as a
function of pH and acid type.

Nielsen L(1), Knøchel S(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Copenhagen, Department of Food Science, Section of Microbiology 
and Fermentation, Rolighedsvej 26, 1958, Frederiksberg C, Denmark. Electronic
address: l.nielsen@food.ku.dk.
(2)University of Copenhagen, Department of Food Science, Section of Microbiology 
and Fermentation, Rolighedsvej 26, 1958, Frederiksberg C, Denmark.

Raw egg-based dishes present a safety risk when eggs of uncertain Salmonella
status are used. Here, the inactivation of four Salmonella serovars at different 
combinations of acid, pH and temperature were investigated. Strains of egg or
broiler-associated Salmonella serovars Enteritidis, Infantis, Typhimurium, and a 
heat resistant Senftenberg 775W were tested in broth and egg yolk. It was
observed that although S. Senftenberg 775W survived better than its mutant
lacking the loci of heat resistance, the wild type per se was not acid tolerant. 
For all strains, egg yolk acidification with vinegar to pH 3.9 and storage at
25 °C or 8 °C resulted in >4Log(cfu/mL) reductions within 2h or 24h,
respectively. At pH 4.2, 2-3Log(cfu/mL) reductions were seen within 6h at 25 °C. 
In contrast, acidification with lemon juice to pH of 3.9 allowed for growth at
25 °C, while a pH of 2.9 ensured >4Log(cfu/mL) reductions within 24h. Egg yolk
and acid form the basis for many recipes and with a ratio of 0.82 of vinegar (≥5%
acetic acid) to egg yolk or 1.23 of lemon juice to yolk and storage at 25 °C for 
2h or 24h, respectively, a high degree of safety can be obtained, if properly
chilled raw eggs are used.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103574 
PMID: 32950158 

