
1. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2020 Sep 28. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.20-0258. [Epub ahead of print]

A Systematic Review on Antimicrobial Resistance among Salmonella Typhi Worldwide.

Marchello CS(1), Carr SD(1), Crump JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for International Health, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.

Understanding patterns and trends of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in Salmonella
Typhi can guide empiric treatment recommendations and contribute to country
decisions about typhoid conjugate vaccine (TCV) introduction. We systematically
reviewed PubMed and Web of Science for articles reporting the proportion of
Salmonella Typhi isolates resistant to individual antimicrobials worldwide from
any time period. Isolates resistant to chloramphenicol, ampicillin, and
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole were classified as multidrug resistant (MDR), and
isolates that were MDR plus resistant to a fluoroquinolone and a third-generation
cephalosporin were extensively drug resistant (XDR). Among the 198 articles
eligible for analysis, a total of 55,459 Salmonella Typhi isolates were tested
for AMR (median 80; range 2-5,191 per study). Of isolates from 2015 through 2018 
in Asia, 1,638 (32.6%) of 5,032 were MDR, 167 (5.7%) of 2,914 were resistant to
third-generation cephalosporins, and 148 (8.3%) of 1,777 were resistant to
azithromycin. Two studies from Pakistan reported 14 (2.6%) of 546 isolates were
XDR. In Africa, the median proportion of Salmonella Typhi isolates that were MDR 
increased each consecutive decade from 1990 to 1999 through 2010 to 2018.
Salmonella Typhi has developed resistance to an increasing number of
antimicrobial classes in Asia, where XDR Salmonella Typhi is now a major threat, 
whereas MDR has expanded in Africa. We suggest continued and increased
surveillance is warranted to inform empiric treatment decisions and that AMR data
be incorporated into country decisions on TCV introduction.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.20-0258 
PMID: 32996447 

