
1. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2020 Oct 3. pii: dkaa390. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkaa390. [Epub
ahead of print]

Detection of mobile genetic elements associated with antibiotic resistance in
Salmonella enterica using a newly developed web tool: MobileElementFinder.

Johansson MHK(1), Bortolaia V(1), Tansirichaiya S(2), Aarestrup FM(1), Roberts
AP(3), Petersen TN(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Food Institute, Technical University of Denmark, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby,
Denmark.
(2)Department of Clinical Dentistry, Faculty of Health Sciences, UiT the Arctic
University of Norway, Tromsø, Norway.
(3)Department of Tropical Disease Biology, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine,
Liverpool, UK.

OBJECTIVES: Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in clinically relevant bacteria is a
growing threat to public health globally. In these bacteria, antimicrobial
resistance genes are often associated with mobile genetic elements (MGEs), which 
promote their mobility, enabling them to rapidly spread throughout a bacterial
community.
METHODS: The tool MobileElementFinder was developed to enable rapid detection of 
MGEs and their genetic context in assembled sequence data. MGEs are detected
based on sequence similarity to a database of 4452 known elements augmented with 
annotation of resistance genes, virulence factors and detection of plasmids.
RESULTS: MobileElementFinder was applied to analyse the mobilome of 1725
sequenced Salmonella enterica isolates of animal origin from Denmark, Germany and
the USA. We found that the MGEs were seemingly conserved according to multilocus 
ST and not restricted to either the host or the country of origin. Moreover, we
identified putative translocatable units for specific aminoglycoside,
sulphonamide and tetracycline genes. Several putative composite transposons were 
predicted that could mobilize, among others, AMR, metal resistance and
phosphodiesterase genes associated with macrophage survivability. This is, to our
knowledge, the first time the phosphodiesterase-like pdeL has been found to be
potentially mobilized into S. enterica.
CONCLUSIONS: MobileElementFinder is a powerful tool to study the epidemiology of 
MGEs in a large number of genome sequences and to determine the potential for
genomic plasticity of bacteria. This web service provides a convenient method of 
detecting MGEs in assembled sequence data. MobileElementFinder can be accessed at
https://cge.cbs.dtu.dk/services/MobileElementFinder/.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
British Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkaa390 
PMID: 33009809 

