
1. Pol J Vet Sci. 2020 Sep;23(3):439-446. doi: 10.24425/pjvs.2020.134689.

Antibacterial effects of hydrogen peroxide and caprylic acid on selected
foodborne bacteria.

Výrostková J(1), Pipová M(1), Semjon B(1), Jevinová P(1), Regecová I(1), Maľová
J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Hygiene and Technology, University of Veterinary Medicine
and Pharmacy, Komenského 73, 041 81 Košice, Slovakia.

Bactericidal activity of caprylic acid (CA) and hydrogen peroxide (HP) was
investigated in this study in order to design a suitable formulation for use in
the food-processing industry. Antibacterial effects of the two chemicals were
tested in vitro against the reference strains of Salmonella enterica subsp.
enterica serotype Enteritidis CCM 4420, Escherichia coli CCM 3988, Listeria
monocytogenes CCM 5578 and Staphylococcus aureus CCM 4223, as well as against the
wild bacterial strains obtained from various food commodities (poultry meat,
rabbit meat, raw milk sheep cheese 'Bryndza') and potable water. First,
suspension test was carried out to determine the minimum bactericidal
concentrations for individual chemical compounds. While most Gram-negative
bacteria tested were effectively inhibited by HP at a 0.5% concentration, the
growth of Gram-positive bacterial strains was stopped by a 2% solution. CA showed
similar antibacterial effect on all bacterial strains tested except for Staph.
aureus showing the same sus-ceptibility as Gram-negative bacteria. The wild
strains generally had higher resistance to both chemicals than the reference
strains. Combination of HP and CA at concentrations of 0.01%; 0.05% and 0.1% was 
further tested by the suspension test, carrier test, and carrier test with
simul-taneous exposure to UV light. The total bactericidal activity against
selected foodborne pathogens was already observed at a concentration of 0.1% and 
the efficiency was significantly increased by the use of UV radiation. A novel
disinfectant based on the combination of HP with CA appears to be a suitable
binary formulation for potential use in the food sector.

Copyright© by the Polish Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.24425/pjvs.2020.134689 
PMID: 33006856 

