
1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2020 Sep 29;117(39):24443-24449. doi:
10.1073/pnas.2005857117. Epub 2020 Sep 8.

Short Vi-polysaccharide abrogates T-independent immune response and
hyporesponsiveness elicited by long Vi-CRM197 conjugate vaccine.

Micoli F(1), Bjarnarson SP(2)(3), Arcuri M(1), Aradottir Pind AA(2)(3),
Magnusdottir GJ(2)(3), Necchi F(1), Di Benedetto R(1), Carducci M(1), Schiavo
F(1), Giannelli C(1), Pisoni I(4), Martin LB(1), Del Giudice G(4), MacLennan
CA(5), Rappuoli R(6)(7), Jonsdottir I(8)(3), Saul A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Technology Platform Unit, GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health (GVGH),
53100 Siena, Italy.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Iceland, 101 Reykjavik, Iceland.
(3)Department of Immunology, Landspitali, The National University Hospital of
Iceland, 101 Reykjavik, Iceland.
(4)R&D Centre, GSK Vaccines, 53100 Siena, Italy.
(5)Jenner Institute, Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford,
Oxford OX3 7BN, United Kingdom.
(6)R&D Centre, GSK Vaccines, 53100 Siena, Italy; rino.r.rappuoli@gsk.com
ingileif@landspitali.is.
(7)Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, London SW7 2BU, United Kingdom.
(8)Faculty of Medicine, University of Iceland, 101 Reykjavik, Iceland;
rino.r.rappuoli@gsk.com ingileif@landspitali.is.

Polysaccharide-protein conjugates have been developed to overcome the
T-independent response, hyporesponsiveness to repeated vaccination, and poor
immunogenicity in infants of polysaccharides. To address the impact of
polysaccharide length, typhoid conjugates made with short- and long-chain
fractions of Vi polysaccharide with average sizes of 9.5, 22.8, 42.7, 82.0, and
165 kDa were compared. Long-chain-conjugated Vi (165 kDa) induced a response in
both wild-type and T cell-deficient mice, suggesting that it maintains a
T-independent response. In marked contrast, short-chain Vi (9.5 to 42.7 kDa)
conjugates induced a response in wild-type mice but not in T cell-deficient mice,
suggesting that the response is dependent on T cell help. Mechanistically, this
was explained in neonatal mice, in which long-chain, but not short-chain, Vi
conjugate induced late apoptosis of Vi-specific B cells in spleen and early
depletion of Vi-specific B cells in bone marrow, resulting in hyporesponsiveness 
and lack of long-term persistence of Vi-specific IgG in serum and IgG+
antibody-secreting cells in bone marrow. We conclude that while conjugation of
long-chain Vi generates T-dependent antigens, the conjugates also retain
T-independent properties, leading to detrimental effects on immune responses. The
data reported here may explain some inconsistencies observed in clinical trials
and help guide the design of effective conjugate vaccines.

Copyright Â© 2020 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2005857117 
PMID: 32900928 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interest statement: This work was
undertaken at the request of and was sponsored by GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA.
F.M., F.N., R.D.B., F.S., M.C., C.G., I.P., L.B.M., G.D.G., and R.R. are
employees of the GSK group of companies. M.A. received a PhD studentship from GSK
and University of Birmingham. C.A.M. was employee of Novartis Vaccines Institute 
for Global Health (acquired by the GSK group of companies in March 2015) at the
time of the study. A.S. was an employee of GSK group of companies when the study 
was performed. F.M., L.B.M., C.A.M., and A.S. are listed as inventors on patents 
related to this work owned by the GSK group of companies. GVGH (GSK Vaccines
Institute for Global Health), an Institute with a nonprofit mission, has
partnered with Biological E Ltd., a vaccine manufacture located in Hyderabad,
India, for the development of a Typhoid Conjugate Vaccine, which received Indian 
marketing authorization in March 2020.

