
1. Bioorg Chem. 2020 Aug 28;104:104244. doi: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2020.104244. [Epub
ahead of print]

Structure based drug discovery and in vitro activity testing for DNA gyrase
inhibitors of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi.

Sharma P(1), Kumar M(1), Dahiya S(2), Sood S(2), Das BK(2), Kaur P(3), Kapil
A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, 
India.
(2)Department of Microbiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New
Delhi, India.
(3)Department of Biophysics, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, 
India. Electronic address: punitkaur1@hotmail.com.
(4)Department of Microbiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New
Delhi, India. Electronic address: akapilmicro@gmail.com.

The emerged resistance in Typhoidal Salmonella has limited the treatment options 
for typhoid fever. In this scenario, there is a need to find alternate treatment 
modalities against this pathogen. Amongst the therapeutic agents currently being 
used to treat enteric fever, quinolones have enjoyed considerable success since
past three decades. These drugs act upon DNA gyrase and the acquired resistance
is due to mutations at Ser83 and Asp87 of gyrase A subunit. In the present study 
DNA gyrase enzyme was targeted to seek out potential new inhibitors which are not
affected by these mutations. Molecular modelling and docking studies were
performed in Schrödinger's molecular modelling software. Homology model of DNA
gyrase-DNA complex was built using templates 1AB4 and 3LTN. Molecular dynamic
simulations were performed in SPC solvent for 100 ns. Total 17,900,742 drug like 
molecules were downloaded from ZINC library of chemical compounds. The Glide XP
score of the compounds ranged from -5.285 to -13.692. All the ligands bound at
the four base pair staggered nick in the DNA binding groove of DNA gyrase enzyme 
with their aromatic rings intercalating between the bases of two successive
nucleotides stabilized by π - π stacking interactions. The binding pocket of DNA 
gyrase B comprising conserved residues Lys 447, Gly 448, Lys 449, Ile 450, Leu
451, Gln 465 and Val 467 interacts with the ligand molecules through van der
Waals interactions. The MIC (minimum inhibitory concentration), MBC (minimum
bactericidal concentration) and IC50 of the tested compounds ranged from 500 to
125 mg/L, 750 to 500 mg/L and 100 to 12.5 mg/L, respectively. The selected hits
bind to quinolone binding pocket, but their mode of binding and conformation is
different to fluoroquinolones, and hence, their binding is not affected by
mutations at Ser83 or Asp87 positions. These lead compounds can be further
explored as a scaffold to design inhibitors against DNA gyrase to bypass
quinolone resistance.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bioorg.2020.104244 
PMID: 32966903 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

