
1. Eur Heart J Case Rep. 2020 Jul 25;4(4):1-5. doi: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytaa173.
eCollection 2020 Aug.

Acute myopericarditis caused by Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis: a case
report.

Chehab O(1), McGuire E(1), Wani RLS(1), Weerackody R(1).

Author information: 
(1)St Bartholomew's Hospital, Barts Health NHS Trust, W Smithfield, London EC1A
7BE, UK.

Background: Acute myopericarditis can be caused by a myriad of infectious and
non-infectious aetiologies, however, it is often considered to be due to
self-limiting viral infection. Salmonella spp. myopericarditis is rare and the
few cases in the literature suggest significant associated morbidity and
mortality.
Case summary: A 44-year-old man presented with fever, dyspnoea, and chest pain.
He was found to have a large pericardial effusion with clinical signs of
tamponade and sepsis. Therapeutic pericardiocentesis was performed and
ceftriaxone and levofloxacin were administered. Fully sensitive Salmonella
enterica serovar Enteritidis (S. Enteritidis) was isolated in his pericardial
fluid and he made a full recovery after a 4-week course of ciprofloxacin. A new
diagnosis of type 2 diabetes mellitus was made on admission. A follow-up cardiac 
magnetic resonance (CMR) scan was suggestive of myocarditis which was unexpected 
given a normal Troponin T level on presentation.
Discussion: We report a rare case of S. Enteritidis myopericarditis. Our case is 
notable as the patient was immunocompetent apart from newly diagnosed diabetes.
This case highlights the value of CMR imaging in assessing for myocarditis and
ventricular function.

Â© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/ehjcr/ytaa173 
PMCID: PMC7501925
PMID: 32974469 

