
1. Z Gastroenterol. 2020 May;58(5):456-460. doi: 10.1055/a-1123-7984. Epub 2020 May 
11.

Ulcerative reflux esophagitis associated with Clostridium ventriculi following
hiatoplasty - is antibiotic treatment necessary? A case report.

Heidinger M(1), Gorkiewicz G(1), Freisinger O(2), Brcic I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Diagnostic and Research Institute of Pathology, Medical University of Graz,
Graz, Austria.
(2)Department for Surgery, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.

Clostridium (C.) ventriculi (known as Sarcina ventriculi) is a ubiquitous
gram-positive, anaerobic, acidophilic coccus found in patients with gastric
motility disorders. The microorganisms can be identified histologically by their 
characteristic presentation in tetrads or packets of 8 in hematoxylin and eosin
stains. Severe cases of emphysematous gastritis or gastric perforation have been 
described. Nevertheless, the significance of C. ventriculi in an upper
gastrointestinal tract and its pathogenic character remain unclear. We present a 
67-year-old woman who underwent hiatoplasty with gastropexy. After 3 months, she 
underwent a gastroscopy showing gastroesophageal reflux. Biopsies showed
ulcerative reflux esophagitis with presence of C.ventriculi, subsequently
confirmed by 16S ribosomal RNA gene amplicon sequencing. The barium swallow study
revealed an atonic stomach with delayed gastric emptying. The patient was treated
with PPI and domperidone. On follow up, 15 months post-operatively, a control
gastroscopy showed a stomach with food residues and reflux-associated small
erosions. The Clostridium organisms were detected only in oxyntic mucosa biopsies
without erosions or ulcerations. We speculate that the recognition of the
organisms in the biopsy material is important and suggests dysmotility disorder. 
However, in our opinion, the presence of C. ventriculi, even in combination with 
mucosal damage, does not necessarily prompt antibiotic treatment since no
complications occurred and inflammation as well as gastric function improved
under PPI and prokinetic therapy in our patient. Larger study groups with
long-term follow-up are needed to understand whether these organisms could behave
as pathogens or are only bystanders in the setting of delayed gastric emptying.

Publisher: Clostridium (C.) ventriculi (vormals Sarcina ventriculi) ist ein
ubiquitär vorkommender, anaerober, grampositiver Kokkus, der üblicherweise bei
Personen mit gastrischen Motilitätsstörungen nachgewiesen wird. Das Bakterium
präsentiert sich histologisch in der H/E- Färbung als typischerweise in Tetraden 
oder Oktaden gelagerter Mikroorganismus. Fallberichte mit schwerwiegenden
klinischen Verläufen wie emphysematöser Gastritis und Magenperforation und der
Assoziation mit C. ventriculi wurden beschrieben. Dennoch sind die klinische
Relevanz des Nachweises von C. ventriculi im oberen Gastrointestinaltrakt (GI)
und seine Pathogenität unklar. Wir präsentieren einen Fall einer 67-jährigen
Patientin nach Hiatoplastik und Gastropexie. Drei Monate nach dem Eingriff wurde 
eine Nachsorgegastroskopie bei Refluxsymptomatik durchgeführt. Die Biopsien
zeigten eine ulzeröse Refluxösophagitis mit Nachweis von C. ventriculi. Der
histologische Befund wurde durch einen panbakteriellen PCR-Nachweis
(16S-rRNA-Gen-Sequenzierung) bestätigt. Ein Video-Schluckakt-Röntgen zeigte einen
atonischen Magen mit verzögerter Entleerung. Die Patientin wurde mit einem
Protonenpumpeninhibitor und Domperidon behandelt. Bei einer folgenden
Kontrollgastroskopie (15 Monate postoperativ) zeigten sich nur geringe
refluxassoziierte Veränderungen an der Ora serrata. Interessanterweise wurde C.
ventriculi diesmal nur in der Magenschleimhaut nachgewiesen, wobei sich weder
Erosionen noch Ulzerationen zeigten. Nach unserer Einschätzung ist die Erfassung 
von C. ventriculi in bioptischem Material ein möglicher Indikator einer
GI-Motilitätsstörung. Allerdings ist die Pathogenität des Organismus fraglich,
und sein Nachweis erfordert nicht notwendigerweise, auch bei Vorliegen von
Mukosaschäden, eine antibiotische Therapie. Größere Studienpopulationen mit
Langzeit-Follow-up wären nötig, um diese Mikroorganismen als mögliche Pathogene
oder einfache Bystander oder Kommensalen bei verzögerter Magenentleerung zu
charakterisieren.
© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/a-1123-7984 
PMID: 32392607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict of
interest.

