
1. Scott Med J. 2020 May;65(2):40-45. doi: 10.1177/0036933020912329. Epub 2020 Mar
24.

John Goodsir: discovering Sarcina ventriculi and diagnosing Darwin's dyspepsia.

Donaldson K(1), Henry C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Senior Research Fellow, Surgeons' Hall Museums, Edinburgh and Emeritus
Professor of Respiratory Toxicology, University of Edinburgh, UK.
(2)Director of Heritage, Surgeons' Hall Museums, Edinburgh, UK.

In 1842, when John Goodsir was Conservator to the Museum of the RCSEd, he saw a
19-year-old male patient who vomited a large volume of acidic,
fermented-smelling, watery fluid every morning. Under his microscope, Goodsir
found the vomitus to be populated with a micro-organism he named Sarcina
ventriculi, which he considered to be causative. In so-doing, Goodsir became one 
of the first people to link a specific micro-organism with a disease. Goodsir
recommended small doses of creosote as an antiseptic and claimed that the boy was
eventually cured of the vomiting condition. In August of 1863 Charles Darwin was 
hugely celebrated by the scientific community and the public, but he had suffered
from severe stomach problems all his adult life and at this point, he was
vomiting daily. He read Goodsir's paper and contacted him and asked if he could
send some vomitus samples to Edinburgh in the hope that Goodsir might find
Sarcina in it and solve the mystery of his debilitating stomach symptoms and
perhaps cure them with creosote. Goodsir examined samples in his microscope, but 
failed to find Sarcina. Sadly, Darwin went on to suffer constantly from severe
stomach problems, recently attributed to lactose intolerance, until he died in
1882, some 20â€‰years later.

DOI: 10.1177/0036933020912329 
PMID: 32208839 

