
1. IDCases. 2020 Feb 11;19:e00711. doi: 10.1016/j.idcr.2020.e00711. eCollection
2020.

Fatal outcome of gastric perforation due to infection with Sarcina spp. A case
report.

Dumitru A(1)(2), Aliuş C(3), Nica AE(2)(4), Antoniac I(5), Gheorghiță D(5),
Grădinaru S(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Pathology Department, University Emergency Hospital Bucharest, Romania.
(2)Carol Davila University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.
(3)4th Surgical Department, University Emergency Hospital Bucharest, Romania.
(4)Anesthesiology Department, University Emergency Hospital Bucharest, Bucharest,
Romania.
(5)Politehnica University of Bucharest, Faculty of Materials Science and
Engineering, Romania.

Sarcina ventriculi is an extremely rare pathogen. These gram-positive cocci
bacteria are rarely identified in gastric biopsies and usually described in the
scientific literature as an incidental finding, particularly in patients with
delayed gastric emptying, gastroparesis, emphysematous gastritis or gastric
perforation. It occurs most commonly in adult women and can be identified easily 
by its distinctive morphologic features, such as basophilic staining, cuboidal
shape, tetrad arrangement, red blood cell-sized packets, flattened cell walls,
and refractile nature in bright field microscopy. Although the pathogenesis of
the microorganism is highly debated in humans, this bacterium is a well-known
pathogen in livestock. Fewer than 30 cases of human infection have been described
in the scientific literature so far, but none mentioned this micro-organism as a 
potential cause of death. We report the case of a 76-year-old patient with
gastric perforation due to massive infection with Sarcina ventriculi. To date,
this is the first report of human infection with Sarcina ventriculi in Romania.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.idcr.2020.e00711 
PMCID: PMC7031000
PMID: 32099809 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interests.

