
1. J Clin Med. 2020 Aug 2;9(8). pii: E2484. doi: 10.3390/jcm9082484.

The Role of Oral Microbiota in Intra-Oral Halitosis.

Hampelska K(1)(2), Jaworska MM(1), Babalska ZŁ(3), Karpiński TM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Pharmaceutical Microbiology, Poznań University of
Medical Sciences, Święcickiego 4, 60-781 Poznań, Poland.
(2)Central Microbiology Laboratory, H. Święcicki Clinical Hospital, Poznań
University of Medical Sciences, Przybyszewskiego 49, 60-355 Poznań, Poland.
(3)Chair and Department of Medical Microbiology, Poznań University of Medical
Sciences, Wieniawskiego 3, 61-712 Poznań, Poland.

Halitosis is a common ailment concerning 15% to 60% of the human population.
Halitosis can be divided into extra-oral halitosis (EOH) and intra-oral halitosis
(IOH). The IOH is formed by volatile compounds, which are produced mainly by
anaerobic bacteria. To these odorous substances belong volatile sulfur compounds 
(VSCs), aromatic compounds, amines, short-chain fatty or organic acids, alcohols,
aliphatic compounds, aldehydes, and ketones. The most important VSCs are hydrogen
sulfide, dimethyl sulfide, dimethyl disulfide, and methyl mercaptan. VSCs can be 
toxic for human cells even at low concentrations. The oral bacteria most related 
to halitosis are Actinomyces spp., Bacteroides spp., Dialister spp., Eubacterium 
spp., Fusobacterium spp., Leptotrichia spp., Peptostreptococcus spp.,
Porphyromonas spp., Prevotella spp., Selenomonas spp., Solobacterium spp.,
Tannerella forsythia, and Veillonella spp. Most bacteria that cause halitosis are
responsible for periodontitis, but they can also affect the development of oral
and digestive tract cancers. Malodorous agents responsible for carcinogenesis are
hydrogen sulfide and acetaldehyde.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm9082484 
PMCID: PMC7465478
PMID: 32748883 

