
1. PLoS One. 2020 May 22;15(5):e0225018. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0225018.
eCollection 2020.

Relationship between true digestibility of dietary phosphorus and
gastrointestinal bacteria of goats.

Wang L(1)(2), Shah AM(1)(2)(3), Liu Y(1)(2), Jin L(1)(2), Wang Z(1)(2), Xue
B(1)(2), Peng Q(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Animal Nutrition, Sichuan Agricultural University, Chengdu,
Sichuan, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Animal Disease-Resistant Nutrition, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(3)Department of Livestock Production, Shaheed Benazir Bhutto University of
Veterinary and Animal Science, Sakrand, Sindh, Pakistan.

The present research was conducted to evaluate the connection between the true
digestibility of Phosphorus (TDP) in diet and bacterial community structure in
the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) of goats. Twenty-eight Nubian goats were chosen 
and metabolic experiment was conducted to analyze TDP of research animals. Eight 
goats were grouped into the high digestibility of phosphorus (HP) phenotype, and 
another 8 were grouped into the low digestibility of phosphorus (LP) phenotype.
And from the rumen, abomasum, jejunim, cecum and colon content of the goats,
bacterial 16S rRNA gene amplicons were sequenced. In the rumen 239 genera
belonging to 23 phyla, in abomasum 319 genera belonging to 30 phyla, in jejunum
248 genera belonging to 36 phyla, in colon 248 genera belonging to 25 phyla and
in cecum 246 genera belonging to 23 phyla were noticed. In addition, there was a 
significant correlation between the TDP and the abundance of
Ruminococcaceae_UCG-010, Ruminococcus_2, Ruminococcaceae_UCG-014, Selenomonas_1
and Prevotella in the rumen, Lachnospiraceae_ND3007_group, Saccharofermentans,
Ruminococcus_1, Ruminococcaceae_UCG-014, Lachnospiraceae_XPB1014_group and
Desulfovibrio in the abomasum, Prevotella, Clostridium_sensu_stricto_1,
Fibrobacter, Desulfovibrio and Ruminococcus_2 in the jejunum,
Ruminococcaceae_UCG-014 in the colon, and Desulfovibrio in the cecum. Present
research trial recommended that the community of gastrointestinal microbiota is a
factor affecting TDP in goats.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0225018 
PMCID: PMC7244181
PMID: 32442173  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

