
1. Arch Anim Nutr. 2020 Aug;74(4):296-308. doi: 10.1080/1745039X.2020.1743607. Epub 
2020 Apr 19.

Effects of dietary grape pomace on the intestinal microbiota and growth
performance of weaned piglets.

Wang R(1), Yu H(1), Fang H(1), Jin Y(1), Zhao Y(1), Shen J(1), Zhou C(1), Li
R(1), Wang J(1), Fu Y(1), Zhang J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Animal Science, Jilin University , Changchun, P. R. China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Zoonosis Research, Ministry of Education, Jilin University ,
Changchun, P. R. China.

Grape pomace (GP) is an abundant by-product from wine production and is rich in
phenolic compounds, unsaturated fatty acids, dietary fibre and beneficial
bacteria. In this study, weaned piglets were fed a basic diet supplemented with
5% GP for 4 weeks. Compared with those in the control (CON) group, it was found
that the proportion of Lactobacillus delbrueckii, Olsenella umbonata and
Selenomonas bovis in the caecum and the villus height and villus height/crypt
depth ratio (VCR) of the jejunum were both significantly increased in the GP
group (p < 0.05). Meanwhile, at the mRNA expression level, several
proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-8, IL-6 and TNF-α) were significantly
downregulated (p < 0.05) in piglet caecal tissue, and the short-chain fatty acid 
receptors (GPR41 and GPR43) were not significantly upregulated. In contrast, the 
levels of IgG was significantly increased (p < 0.05) in the sera of weaned
piglets in the GP group. However, no difference in growth performance between the
two groups of piglets was detected. These results show that GP had no adverse
effects on the growth performance of piglets, but GP can promote the content of
some beneficial bacteria in the caecum; this effect is conducive to improving the
disease resistance potential of piglets.

DOI: 10.1080/1745039X.2020.1743607 
PMID: 32308036 

