
1. Pharmacol Res. 2020 Jul 28;160:105095. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2020.105095. [Epub
ahead of print]

Association of sputum microbiome with clinical outcome of initial antibiotic
treatment in hospitalized patients with acute exacerbations of COPD.

Liu H(1), Zheng D(1), Lin Y(2), Liu Z(3), Liang Z(4), Su J(2), Chen R(4), Zhou
H(5), Wang Z(6).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Organ Failure Research, Microbiome Medicine Center,
Division of Laboratory Medicine, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China.
(2)Chronic Airways Diseases Laboratory, Department of Respiratory and Critical
Care Medicine, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Organ Failure Research, Department of Cardiology,
Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, National Clinical Research Center
for Respiratory Disease, Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory Health, the First
Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Organ Failure Research, Microbiome Medicine Center,
Division of Laboratory Medicine, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: biodegradation@gmail.com.
(6)Institute of Ecological Sciences, School of Life Sciences, South China Normal 
University, Guangzhou, China; South China Normal University-Panyu Central
Hospital Joint Laboratory of Translational Medical Research, Guangzhou, China.
Electronic address: wangz@m.scnu.edu.cn.

Identification of risk factors for antibiotic treatment failure is urgently
needed in acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (AECOPD). 
Here we investigated the relationship between sputum microbiome and clinical
outcome of choice of initial antibiotics during hospitalization of AECOPD
patients. Sputum samples of 41 AECOPD patients and 26 healthy controls were
collected from Guangzhou Medical University, China. Samples were processed for
16S rRNA gene-based microbiome profiling. Thirty patients recovered with initial 
antibiotic treatment (antibiotic success or AS), while 11 patients showed poor
outcome (antibiotic failure or AF). Substantial differences in microbiome were
observed in AF versus AS patients and healthy controls. There was significantly
decreased alpha diversity and increased relative abundances of Pseudomonas,
Achromobacter, Stenotrophomonas and Ralstonia in AF patients. Conversely,
Prevotella, Peptostreptococcus, Leptotrichia and Selenomonas were depleted. The
prevalence of Selenomonas was markedly reduced in AF versus AS patients (9.1 %
versus 60.0 %, P = 0.004). The AF patients with similar microbiome profiles in
general responded well to the same new antibiotics in the adjusted therapy,
indicating sputum microbiome may help guide the adjustment of antibiotics. Random
forest analysis identified five microbiome operational taxonomic units together
with C-reactive protein, procalcitonin and blood neutrophil count showing best
predictability for antibiotic treatment outcome (area under curve 0.885).
Functional inference revealed an enrichment of microbial genes in xenobiotic
metabolism and antimicrobial resistance in AF patients, whereas genes in DNA
repair and amino acid metabolism were depleted. Sputum microbiome may determine
the clinical outcome of initial antibiotic treatment and be considered in the
risk management of antibiotics in AECOPD.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2020.105095 
PMID: 32730904 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest All authors
declare no conflict of interest.

