
1. Shanghai Kou Qiang Yi Xue. 2020 Apr;29(2):208-212.

[Comparative study of submucosal microbial ecological environment between human
peri-implantitis and healthy implants].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao X(1), Ge HB, Feng J, DU Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Dentistry, Wangfujing Branch of Beijing Stomatological
Hospital, Capital Medical University. Beijing 100006, China.
E-mail:snowfox155@163.com.

PURPOSE: To investigate the balance of submucosal microbial ecological
environment in human peri-implantitis and healthy implants.
METHODS: The patients with peri-implantitis and dental implants in Beijing
Stomatological Hospital, and followed up for one year from September 2017 to
January 2019 were enrolled. Patients were divided into two groups according to
the presence or absence of peri-implantitis, i.e. peri-implantitis group (43, 51 
implants) and healthy group (59 patients, 63 implants). The probing depth, bone
resorption, probing bleeding, mPLI and mSBI were recorded. DNA of the submucosal 
microflora was extracted using a microbial gene extraction kit and sequenced by
Illumina's MiSeq sequencing platform. Logistic regression analysis was used to
analyze the correlation between the dominant bacteria and the average maximum
probing depth, mPLI grading and MSBI grading in peri-implantitis group. The data 
were processed by SPSS 23.0 software package.
RESULTS: The average maximum probing depth of peri-implantitis group was
significantly higher than that in healthy group (P<0.05). The proportion of mPLI 
grade 2 in peri-implantitis group was significantly higher than that in healthy
group [56.86%(29/51) vs 0.00%(0/63), P<0.05]. The proportion of mSBI grade 2 in
peri-implantitis group was significantly higher than that in healthy group
[60.78%(31/51) vs 0.00%(0/63), P<0.05]. The Simpson index of peri-implantitis
group was significantly higher than that of the healthy group, and the Shannon
index was significantly lower than the healthy group (P<0.05). In
peri-implantitis group, the dominant microflora were Selenomonas (16.35%),
Pseudomonas (11.20%), Fusobacterium (10.05%), Streptococcus (7.63%) and Treponema
(6.84%).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with healthy implants, submucosal microorganisms of
peri-implantitis have high species abundance and low species evenness,
Pseudomonas, Selenomonas, Fusobacterium, Streptococcus and Treponema account for 
high proportions in the dominant bacteria.


PMID: 32626887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

