
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Mar;70(3):1684-1690. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003958.

Senegalimassilia faecalis sp. nov., an anaerobic actinobacterium isolated from
human faeces, and emended description of the genus Senegalimassilia.

Han KI(1), Kim JS(1), Lee KC(1), Eom MK(1), Suh MK(1), Kim HS(1), Park SH(1), Lee
JH(1), Kang SW(1), Park JE(1), Oh BS(1), Yu SY(1), Choi SH(1), Lee DH(2), Yoon
H(2), Kim BY(3), Lee JH(3), Lee JS(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Korean Collection for Type Cultures, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience
and Biotechnology, 181 Ipsin-gil, Jeongeup-si, Jeollabuk-do 56212, Republic of
Korea.
(2)Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 82 Gumi-ro, 173 Beon-gil,
Bundang-Gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do 13620, Republic of Korea.
(3)ChunLab, Inc., 2477 Nambusunhwan-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul 06725, Republic of
Korea.
(4)University of Science and Technology (UST), 217 Gajeong-ro, Yuseong-gu,
Daejeon 34113, Republic of Korea.

A novel actinobacterial strain, designated KGMB04484T, was isolated from healthy 
human faeces sampled in the Republic of Korea. Cells of strain KGMB04484T were
strictly anaerobic, Gram-stain-positive, catalase-positive, oxidase-negative,
non-motile coccobacilli and formed tiny colonies on Columbia agar with 5 % horse 
blood. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity, strain KGMB04484T was
affiliated with the genus Senegalimassilia in the family Coriobacteriaceae and
its closest relative was Senegalimassilia anaerobia JC110T (96.28 % sequence
similarity). The DNA G+C content of strain KGMB04484T was 61.2 mol%. The polar
lipids contained diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol, an unidentified
phospholipid, an unidentified aminolipid and three unidentified glycolipids. The 
predominant cellular fatty acids (>10 %) of strain KGMB04484T were C14 : 0,
C16 : 0 and C16 : 0 dimethyl acetal. Based on its phylogenetic, physiological and
chemotaxonomic characteristics, strain KGMB04484T is considered to represent a
novel species within the genus Senegalimassilia, for which the name
Senegalimassilia faecalis sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is KGMB04484T
(=KCTC 15721T=CCUG 72347T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003958 
PMID: 31913113  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

