
1. Cureus. 2020 Aug 25;12(8):e10010. doi: 10.7759/cureus.10010.

Serratia marcescens Tricuspid Valve Vegetation and Successful Use of the
AngioVac® System.

Winkle SM(1), Gaballa S(1), Memon A(2), Miller JB(1), Curfiss R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine, LewisGale Medical Center, Salem, USA.
(2)Osteopathic Medicine, Edward Via College of Osteopathic Medicine, Blacksburg, 
USA.

Serratia marcescens bacteremia is common in patient populations with a history of
intravenous drug use (IVDU), but it rarely causes infective endocarditis. We are 
reporting a 27-year-old female with a medical history significant for IVDU and
hepatitis C virus infection who presented to the emergency department complaining
of fever and shortness of breath. Computed tomography of the chest with
intravenous (IV) contrast revealed extensive bilateral pulmonary infiltrates with
multiple cavitary lesions. The patient was treated with IV vancomycin and
piperacillin/tazobactam. Blood culture grows methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus
aureus (MSSA) and S. marcescens, both sensitive to cefepime/meropenem.
Transesophageal echocardiogram revealed 3.4 x 2 cm tricuspid valve vegetation.
Cardiothoracic surgery was consulted, who recommended transcatheter aspiration
with the AngioVac® system (AngioDynamics Inc., Latham, NY). Post-procedure
transesophageal echocardiogram revealed a significant reduction of vegetation
size. Vegetation tissue culture grew MSSA and S. marcescens. The repeated blood
culture revealed no growth, and the patient significantly improved clinically.
She completed a six-week course of IV meropenem as an inpatient until she was
discharged home.

Copyright © 2020, Winkle et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.10010 
PMCID: PMC7515097
PMID: 32983706 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

