
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Aug 20;11:1923. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01923. eCollection 
2020.

Is Long-Term Heavy Metal Exposure Driving Carriage of Antibiotic Resistance in
Environmental Opportunistic Pathogens: A Comprehensive Phenomic and Genomic
Assessment Using Serratia sp. SRS-8-S-2018.

Gendy S(1), Chauhan A(2), Agarwal M(2), Pathak A(2), Rathore RS(2), Jaswal R(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Allied Health Sciences, Florida A&M University, Tallahassee, FL,
United States.
(2)Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory, School of the Environment, FSH Science
Research Center, Florida A&M University, Tallahassee, FL, United States.

The carriage of both, heavy metal and antibiotic resistance appears to be a
common trait in bacterial communities native to long-term contaminated habitats, 
including the Savannah River Site (SRS). There is widespread soil contamination
at the SRS; a United States Department of Energy (DOE) facility with long-term
contamination from past industrial and nuclear weapons production activities. To 
further evaluate the genomic and metabolic traits that underpin metal and
antibiotic resistance, a robust mercury (Hg) and uranium (U)-resistant strain-
SRS-8-S-2018, was isolated. Minimum inhibitory concentration of this strain
revealed resistance to Hg (10 μg/ml) and U (5 mM), the two main heavy metal
contaminants at the SRS. Metabolic assessment of strain SRS-8-S-2018 using Biolog
metabolic fingerprinting analysis revealed preference for carbohydrate
utilization followed by polymers, amino acids, carboxy acids, and esters; this
physiological activity diminished when Hg stress was provided at 1 and 3 μg/ml
and completely ceased at 5 μg/ml Hg, indicating that continued release of Hg will
have negative metabolic impacts to even those microorganisms that possess high
resistance ability. Development of antibiotic resistance in strain SRS-8-S-2018
was evaluated at a functional level using phenomics, which confirmed broad
resistance against 70.8% of the 48 antibiotics tested. Evolutionary and adaptive 
traits of strain SRS-8-S-2018 were further assessed using genomics, which
revealed the strain to taxonomically affiliate with Serratia marcescens species, 
possessing a genome size of 5,323,630 bp, 5,261 proteins (CDS), 55 genes for
transfer RNA (tRNA), and an average G + C content of 59.48. Comparative genomics 
with closest taxonomic relatives revealed 360 distinct genes in SRS-8-S-2018,
with multiple functions related to both, antibiotic and heavy metal resistance,
which likely facilitates the strain's survival in a metalliferous soil habitat.
Comparisons drawn between the environmentally isolated Serratia SRS-8-S-2018 with
31 other strains revealed a closer functional association with medically relevant
isolates suggesting that propensity of environmental Serratia isolates in
acquiring virulence traits, as a function of long-term exposure to heavy metals, 
which is facilitating development, recruitment and proliferation of not only
metal resistant genes (MRGs) but antibiotic resistant genes (ARGs), which can
potentially trigger future bacterial pathogen outbreaks emanating from
contaminated environmental habitats.

Copyright © 2020 Gendy, Chauhan, Agarwal, Pathak, Rathore and Jaswal.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01923 
PMCID: PMC7468404
PMID: 32973703 

