
1. J Mol Diagn. 2020 Sep 19. pii: S1525-1578(20)30463-3. doi:
10.1016/j.jmoldx.2020.09.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Bacterial Whole Genome Sequencing on the Illumina iSeq 100 for Clinical and
Public Health Laboratories.

Bruzek S(1), Vestal G(2), Lasher A(2), Lima A(2), Silbert S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Esoteric Testing/R&D Laboratory, Tampa General Hospital, Tampa, Florida.
Electronic address: Steven.bruzek@teleflex.com.
(2)Esoteric Testing/R&D Laboratory, Tampa General Hospital, Tampa, Florida.
(3)Esoteric Testing/R&D Laboratory, Tampa General Hospital, Tampa, Florida.
Electronic address: ssilbert@tgh.org.

Bacterial whole-genome sequencing (WGS) provides clinical and public health
laboratories an unprecedented level of information on species identification,
antimicrobial resistance, and epidemiological typing. However, multiple barriers 
to widespread adoption still exist. Here, we describe bacterial WGS using the
Illumina iSeq 100 instrument to overcome some of these barriers. Using an
in-house, high quality single nucleotide polymorphism (hqSNP) analysis pipeline
and the BIOMÉRIEUX EPISEQ CS whole-genome Multilocus Sequence Typing (wgMLST)
program, we validated the sequencing of Acinetobacter baumannii, Burkholderia
cepacia, Clostridoides difficile, Enterococcus faecalis, Escherichia coli,
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Serratia marcescens, and Staphylococcus aureus isolates. 
The genome coverage range was 17X to 149X with an average of 59X. The limit of
detection for SNPs was 30X. Overall platform base calling accuracy was >99.999%. 
Reproducibility and repeatability of base calling inferred from wgMLST was
species-dependent and ranged from >97% similarity for P. aeruginosa to >99.9%
similarity for S. aureus. Resistance gene and MLST allele identification was 100%
concordant with expected results. We also describe a simple, modified library
preparation that reduces the per-sample cost by half to give overall theoretical 
sample costs ranging from approximately $50 to $100 for library preparation and
sequencing. The iSeq 100 provides a cost-effective and easy-to-use platform for
clinical and public health laboratories to sequence bacterial isolates for a wide
range of potential applications.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2020.09.003 
PMID: 32961318 

