
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Sep 22;10(1):15454. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-72516-3.

Rhizobacterial species richness improves sorghum growth and soil nutrient
synergism in a nutrient-poor greenhouse soil.

Sahib MR(1)(2), Pervaiz ZH(3), Williams MA(1), Saleem M(4), DeBolt S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Horticulture, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, 40546-0312,
USA.
(2)Department of Horticulture, Al-Qasim Green University, Babylon, Iraq.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Auburn University, Auburn, Al, 36101, USA.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, Alabama State University, Montgomery, Al,
36101, USA. msaleem@alasu.edu.
(5)Department of Horticulture, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, 40546-0312,
USA. sdebo2@uky.edu.

Although microbes influence plant growth, little is known about the impact of
microbial diversity on plant fitness trade-offs, intraspecific-interactions, and 
soil nutrient dynamics in the context of biodiversity-ecosystem functioning (BEF)
research. The BEF theory states that higher species richness can enhance
ecosystem functioning. Thus, we hypothesize that rhizobacterial species richness 
will alter sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) growth, soil nutrient dynamics and
interactions (antagonism or synergism) in a nutrient-poor greenhouse soil. Using 
six rhizobacterial species in a BEF experiment, we tested the impact of a species
richness gradient (0, 1, 3, 5 or 6 species per community) on plant growth,
nutrient assimilation, and soil nutrient dynamics via seed-inoculation. Our
experiment included, one un-inoculated control, six rhizobacterial monoculture
(Pseudomonas poae, Pseudomonas sp., Bacillus pumilus., Pantoea agglomerance.,
Microbacterium sp., and Serratia marcescens), and their nine mixture treatments
in triplicate (48). Rhizobacterial species richness enhanced per pot above- or
below-ground dry mass. However, the per plant growth and plant nutrient
assimilation declined, most likely, due to microbial-driven competitive
interactions among sorghum plants. But nevertheless, some rhizobacterial
monoculture and mixture treatments improved per plant (shoot and root) growth and
nutrient assimilation as well. Soil nutrient contents were mostly lower at higher
plant-associated rhizobacterial diversity; among these, the soil Zn contents
decreased significantly across the rhizobacterial diversity gradient.
Rhizobacterial diversity promoted synergistic interactions among soil nutrients
and improved root-soil interactions. Overall, our results suggest that a higher
rhizobacterial diversity may enhance soil-plant interactions and total
productivity under resource limited conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-72516-3 
PMCID: PMC7509789
PMID: 32963320 

