
1. Ulus Travma Acil Cerrahi Derg. 2020 Sep;26(5):784-788. doi:
10.14744/tjtes.2020.26446.

The efficacy of continuous lumbar drainage in post-traumatic cerebrospinal fluid 
fistulas.

Kırık A(1), Yaşar S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Health Sciences University, Gülhane Training and
Research Hospital, Ankara-Turkey.

BACKGROUND: This study aims to investigate the clinical outcomes of patients who 
underwent closed continuous lumbar drainage (CLD) for post-traumatic
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) fistula and to compare with those of non-traumatic
patients.
METHODS: The data of patients who were treated in the department of neurosurgery 
between January 2018 and December 2019 and underwent CLD were analyzed. The
diagnosis, demographic characteristics, CSF results and clinical outcomes of
these patients were evaluated. The outcomes of the patients with dura defect and 
CSF fistula due to trauma were compared with patients who underwent CLD for other
diagnoses.
RESULTS: In this study, 45 patients underwent CLD for 51 times. The mean age was 
38.84 years, and 27 (60%) of the patients were male. Seven (15.55%) patients
underwent CLD due to post-traumatic CSF fistula and 38 patients after tumor or
malformation surgery. While five patients developed CSF fistula due to dura
defect after gunshot injury, two patients developed CSF fistula secondary to
motor vehicle accident. Staphylococcus Epidermidis was isolated in one patient
among post-traumatic CSF fistula patients while Serratia Marcescens was isolated 
in patients with CSF fistula secondary to posterior fossa tumor surgery. While
none of the seven patients died during the follow-up period in post-traumatic
group, one of the 38 patients with CLD secondary to tumor surgery was lost due to
sepsis in the follow-up period.
CONCLUSION: CLD in post-traumatic CSF fistulas is a safe and effective treatment 
method. Especially in patients with gunshot wounds, CLD should be performed
before revision surgery in the treatment of CSF fistula. Studies with different
parameters are needed in larger trauma populations.

DOI: 10.14744/tjtes.2020.26446 
PMID: 32946085 

