
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Sep 28;10(1):15909. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-73075-3.

SMRT sequencing of the full-length transcriptome of Odontotermes formosanus
(Shiraki) under Serratia marcescens treatment.

Feng K(1)(2), Lu X(1)(2), Luo J(1)(2), Tang F(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Co-Innovation Center for Sustainable Forestry in Southern China, Nanjing
Forestry University, Nanjing, 210037, China.
(2)College of Forestry, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing, 210037, China.
(3)Co-Innovation Center for Sustainable Forestry in Southern China, Nanjing
Forestry University, Nanjing, 210037, China. tangfang76@foxmail.com.
(4)College of Forestry, Nanjing Forestry University, Nanjing, 210037, China.
tangfang76@foxmail.com.

Odontotermes formosanus (Shiraki) is an important pest in the world. Serratia
marcescens have a high lethal effect on O. formosanus, but the specific
insecticidal mechanisms of S. marcescens on O. formosanus are unclear, and the
immune responses of O. formosanus to S. marcescens have not been clarified. At
present, genetic database resources of O. formosanus are extremely scarce.
Therefore, using O. formosanus workers infected by S. marcescens and the control 
as experimental materials, a full-length transcriptome was sequenced using the
PacBio Sequel sequencing platform. A total of 10,364 isoforms were obtained as
the final transcriptome. The unigenes were further annotated with the Nr,
Swiss-Prot, EuKaryotic Orthologous Groups (KOG), Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) Ortholog public databases. In a
comparison between the control group and a Serratia marcescens-infected group, a 
total of 259 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, including 132
upregulated and 127 downregulated genes. Pathway enrichment analysis indicated
that the expression of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway,
oxidative stress genes and the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway in O. 
formosanus may be associated with S. marcescens treatment. This research
intensively studied O. formosanus at the high-throughput full-length
transcriptome level, laying a foundation for further development of molecular
markers and mining of target genes in this species and thereby promoting the
biological control of O. formosanus. Furthermore, these results will be helpful
to clarify the action mechanisms of S. marcescens on O. formosanus, and also
explore the relationship between O. formosanus and S. marcescens. In addition,
this study will identify the immune response of O. formosanus to S. marcescens,
which will provide a theoretical foundation for the development of new
immunosuppressants for O. formosanus.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-73075-3 
PMCID: PMC7522981
PMID: 32985611 

