
1. Biomed Res Int. 2020 Aug 19;2020:5458063. doi: 10.1155/2020/5458063. eCollection 
2020.

The Diversity of Midgut Bacteria among Wild-Caught Phlebotomus argentipes
(Psychodidae: Phlebotominae), the Vector of Leishmaniasis in Sri Lanka.

Gunathilaka N(1), Perera H(1), Wijerathna T(1), Rodrigo W(2), Wijegunawardana
NDAD(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Parasitology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Kelaniya,
Ragama, Sri Lanka.
(2)Biotechnology Unit, Industrial Technology Institute, Colombo 07, Sri Lanka.
(3)Department of Bioprocess Technology, Faculty of Technology, Rajarata
University of Sri Lanka, Sri Lanka.

Phlebotomus argentipes is the main suspected vector for leishmaniasis in Sri
Lanka. Investigations on the presence of aerobic bacteria in the gut of sand
flies which evidence a potential approach to control leishmaniasis transmission
through a paratransgenic strategy are still not available for the local sand fly 
populations. Field-caught unfed female sand flies collected from three selected
Medical Officer of Health (MOH) areas (Polpithigama, Maho, and Galgamuwa) in
Kurunegala District, Sri Lanka from August to December 2018 were used.
Prokaryotic 16S ribosomal RNA partial gene was amplified and sequenced.
Morphological identification revealed the presence of only one sand fly species, 
P. argentipes (n = 1,969). A total of 20 organisms belonging to two phyla
(Proteobactericea and Furmicutes) were detected within the gut microbial
community of the studied sand fly specimens. This study documents the first-ever 
observation of Rhizobium sp. in the midgut of P. argentipes. The presence of
Bacillus megaterium, which is considered as a nonpathogenic bacterium with
potential use for paratransgenic manipulation of P. argentipes suggest that it
may be used as a delivery vehicle to block the vectorial transmission of
Leishmania parasites. In addition, Serratia marcescens may be used as a potential
candidate to block the parasite development in sand fly vectors since it has
evidenced antileishmanial activities in previous investigations. Hence, further
studies are required to gain full insight into the potential use of this
bacterium in the control of Leishmania parasites through paratransgenesis.

Copyright Â© 2020 Nayana Gunathilaka et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/5458063 
PMCID: PMC7453272
PMID: 32923482 

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare that they have no competing
interests.

