
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Sep 24. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-02039-y. [Epub ahead of
print]

Sotolon is a natural virulence mitigating agent in Serratia marcescens.

Abbas HA(1), Goda RM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Zagazig
University, Zagazig, Egypt. hishamabbas2008@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Biotechnology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Delta
University for Science and Technology, Gamasa, Mansoura, Egypt.

Serratia marcescens is an emerging opportunistic bacterium that can cause
healthcare-associated infections. The high rate of multidrug resistance and the
ability to produce a set of virulence factors, by which it can produce infectious
diseases makes it urgent to find an alternative approach to the treatment of such
infections. Disarming of virulence by targeting of quorum sensing (QS) as the
regulating mechanism of virulence is a promising approach that has no effect on
bacterial growth that is considered a key factor in emergence of resistance. This
study was designed to investigate the ability of sub-inhibitory concentrations
(sub-MICs) of sotolon to attenuate virulence of a clinical isolate of S.
marcescens. Sotolon at 25 and 50 μg/ml inhibited 35.2 and 47.5% of biofilm
formation, respectively. The inhibition of swimming motility were 41.4 and 69.3%,
while that of swarming motility were 77.6 and 86.8% at 25 and 50 µg/ml,
respectively. Moreover, sotolon reduced prodigiosin production by 76.6 and 87.6% 
at concentrations of 25 and 50 µg/ml, respectively. Protease activity was reduced
by 25 µg/ml of sotolon by 54.8% and was completely blocked at 50 µg/ml. The
relative expression of genes regulating virulence factors decreased by 40%
for fimA, 29% for fimC, 59% for flhC, 57% for flhD, 39% for bsmB, 37% for rssB,
49% for rsmA, 54% for pigP, and 62% for shlA gene in the presence of 50 µg/ml
sotolon. In conclusion, sotolon is an anti-virulence agent that could be used for
the treatment of S.marcescens hospital-acquired infections.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-02039-y 
PMID: 32970221 

