
1. R Soc Open Sci. 2020 Aug 26;7(8):200847. doi: 10.1098/rsos.200847. eCollection
2020 Aug.

Septicaemia of subterranean termites Coptotermes curvignathus caused by
disturbance of bacteria isolated from termite gut and its foraging pathways.

Chin KL(1), H'ng PS(1)(2), Wong WZ(1), Lee CL(1), Khoo PS(1), Luqman AC(1),
Ashaari Z(2), Gandaseca S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Tropical Forestry and Forest Product, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 
43400 Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Faculty of Forestry and Environment, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400 Serdang,
Selangor, Malaysia.

Microbial pathogens continue to attract a great deal of attention to manage the
termite population. Every bacterium has its own mode of action and in fact, the
mechanisms used by bacteria to attack termites remain elusive at the moment.
Hence, the objective of this study was to evaluate the susceptibility of
subterranean termites Coptotermes curvignathus to opportunistic pathogens using
culturable aerobic bacteria isolated from the termite gut and its foraging
pathways. Bacterial suspensions were prepared in concentrations of 103, 106 and
109 colony-forming units (CFU) ml-1 and introduced to the termites via
oral-contact and physical contact treatment. The data show that contact method
acted slower and gave lower mortality, compared to the oral-contact method.
Coptotermes curvignathus were highly susceptible to Serratia marcescens and
Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Serratia marcescens showed the highest mortality
percentage of 68% and 54% at bacterial concentration of 109 CFU ml-1 via
oral-contact and contact method, respectively. Serratia marcescens was also
defined as the bacteria with the highest ability to induce the high mortality of 
C. curvignathus with the lowest concentration of bacterial suspension at a given 
time under laboratory condition. The results of this study indicate that P.
aeruginosa and S. marcescens in particular may be attractive candidates worth
further examination as a possible biocontrol agent against C. curvignathus in the
field and to evaluate environmental and ecological risks of the biocontrol.

Â© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1098/rsos.200847 
PMCID: PMC7481678
PMID: 32968530 

Conflict of interest statement: We have no competing interests.

