
1. Int J Microbiol. 2020 Sep 4;2020:6572693. doi: 10.1155/2020/6572693. eCollection 
2020.

Detection and Profiling of Antibiotic Resistance among Culturable Bacterial
Isolates in Vended Food and Soil Samples.

Muriuki SW(1), Neondo JO(2), Budambula NLM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Embu, P.O. Box 6-60100, Embu,
Kenya.
(2)Institute for Biotechnology Research, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture 
and Technology, P.O. Box 62000-00200, Nairobi, Kenya.

The emergence and persistence of antibiotic resistance remain formidable health
challenges. This study aimed at detecting and profiling antibiotic resistance of 
bacterial contaminants in vended food and the environment. Seventy
antibiotic-resistant bacterial isolates were isolated from fried fish, African
sausages, roasted meat, smokies, samosa, chips (potato fries), vegetable salads, 
and soil samples collected from Embu Town and Kangaru Market in Embu County,
Kenya. The antibiotic susceptibility test, morphological and biochemical
characterization, antibiosis assay, polymerase chain reaction-based detection of 
antibiotic resistance genes, and sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene were done.
Analysis of variance on all measured data was done, and Tukey's honest test was
used to compare and separate mean diameters of zones inhibition. Resistance of
bacterial isolates to antibiotics was chloramphenicol (90%), cefotaxime (84.29%),
nalidixic acid (81.43%), tetracycline (77.14%), amoxicillin (72.86%), gentamycin 
(48.57%), streptomycin (32.86%), and trimethoprim + sulphamethoxazole (30%).
Isolate KMP337, Salmonella spp., exhibited highly significant antibiosis against 
S. aureus recording a mean inhibition diameter and standard error (SE) of
16.33 ± 0.88 mm, respectively, at P=0.001. The 70 bacterial isolates belonged to 
Bacillus, Paraclostridium, Lysinibacillus, Virgibacillus, and Serratia genera.
The study isolated Bacillus wiedmannii (KC75) which is a risk group 2 as well as 
Serratia marcescens (KMP95) and Bacillus anthracis (KS606) which are risk group 3
organisms. The presence of antibiotic resistance genes Tet A, Bla TEM, StrB, Dfr 
A, Amp, and FloR genes was confirmed by a polymerase chain reaction. Samples from
Kangaru Market recorded a higher (88.57%) proportion of resistant isolates as
compared to isolates from Embu Town (11.43%). The study confirmed the presence of
antibiotic-resistant bacteria in vended fast food and the soil in Embu Town and
Kangaru Market. This study calls for continuous monitoring of bacterial status
and hygienic handling of vended food.

Copyright © 2020 Susan W. Muriuki et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/6572693 
PMCID: PMC7493785
PMID: 32963538 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts
of interest in the publication of this paper.

