
1. J Bacteriol. 2020 Sep 28. pii: JB.00363-20. doi: 10.1128/JB.00363-20. [Epub ahead
of print]

Influence of Shigella flexneri 2a O antigen acetylation on its bacteriophage Sf6 
receptor activity, and bacterial interaction with human cells.

Teh MY(1), Furevi A(2), Widmalm G(2), Morona R(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Department of Molecular & Biomedical Science,
Research Centre for Infectious Diseases, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, 5005, 
Australia.
(2)Department of Organic Chemistry, Arrhenius Laboratory, Stockholm University,
S-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)School of Biological Sciences, Department of Molecular & Biomedical Science,
Research Centre for Infectious Diseases, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, 5005, 
Australia renato.morona@adelaide.edu.au.

Shigella flexneri is a major causative agent of bacillary dysentery in developing
countries where serotype 2a2 is the prevalent strain. To date, approximately 30
serotypes have been identified for S. flexneri and the major contribution to the 
emergence of new serotypes is chemical modifications of the lipopolysaccharide
(LPS) component O antigen (Oag). Glucosylation, O-acetylation and
phosphoethanolamine (PEtN) modifications increase the Oag diversity providing
benefits to S. flexneri LPS Oag acts as a primary receptor for bacteriophage Sf6,
which only infects a limited range of S. flexneri serotypes (Y, X). It uses its
tailspike protein (Sf6TSP) to establish initial interaction with LPS Oags that it
then hydrolyses. Currently, there is a lack of comprehensive study on the parent 
and serotype variant strains from the same genetic background and the
understanding of the importance of LPS Oag O-acetylations. Therefore, a set of
isogenic strains [based on S. flexneri 2457T (2a2)] with deletions of different
Oag modification genes (oacB, oacD and gtrII) that resemble different naturally
occurring serotype Y and 2a strains was created. The impact of these Oag
modifications on S. flexneri sensitivity to Sf6 and the pathogenesis-related
properties were then compared. We found that Sf6TSP can hydrolyse serotype 2a LPS
Oag, identified that 3/4-O-acetylation is essential for resistance of serotype 2a
strains to Sf6, and showed that serotype 2a strains have better invasion ability.
Lastly, we revealed two new serotype conversions for S. flexneri thereby
contributing to understanding the evolution of this important human
pathogen.Importance The emergence of antibiotic resistance strains and lack of
efficient vaccines have made Shigella a priority organism for the World Health
Organisation (1). Therefore, bacteriophage therapy has received increasing
attention as an alternative therapeutic approach. LPS Oag is the most variable
part of LPS due to chemical modifications and is the target of bacteriophage Sf6 
(S. flexneri-specific). We dissected the evolution of S. flexneri serotype Y to
2a2, which revealed a new role for a gene acquired during serotype conversion and
furthermore identified new specific forms of LPS receptor for Sf6. Collectively, 
these results unfold the importance of the acquisition of those Oag modification 
genes and further our understanding of the relationship between Sf6 and S.
flexneri.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.00363-20 
PMID: 32989087 

