
1. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 Jul 31. doi: 10.4014/jmb.2004.04064. [Epub ahead of 
print]

Long-term Monitoring of Noxious Bacteria for Construction of Assurance Management
System of Water Resources in Natural Status of the Republic of Korea.

Bahk YY(1), Kim HS(2), Rhee OJ(3), You KA(4), Bae KS(4), Lee W(5), Kim TS(6), Lee
SS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, College of Biomedical and Health Science, Konkuk 
University, Chungju 27478, Korea.
(2)Department of Life Science, Graduate School, Kyonggi University, Suwon 16227, 
Korea.
(3)DK EcoV Environmental Microbiology Lab., Cheonan 31075, Korea.
(4)Environmental Infrastructure Research Department, Water Supply and Sewerage
Research Division, National Institute of Environmental Research, Incheon 22689,
Korea.
(5)Department of Public Health Science, Graduate School of Public Health, Seoul
National University, Seoul 08826, Korea.
(6)Department of Parasitology and Tropical Medicine, School of Medicine, Inha
University, Incheon 22212, Korea.

Climate change is expected to affect not only availability and quality of water, 
the valuable resource of human life on Earth, but also ultimately public health
issue. A six-year monitoring (total 20 times) of Escherichia coli O157,
Salmonella enterica, Legionella pneumophila, Shigella sonnei, Campylobacter
jejuni, and Vibrio cholerae was conducted at five raw water sampling sites
including two lakes, Hyundo region (Geum River) and two locations near Water
Intake Plants of Han River (Guui region) and Nakdong River (Moolgeum region). A
total 100 samples of 40 L water were tested. Most of the targeted bacteria were
found in 77% of the samples and at least one of the target bacteria was detected 
(65%). Among all the detected bacteria, E. coli O157 were the most prevalent with
a detection frequency of 22%, while S. sonnei was the least prevalent with a
detection frequency of 2%. Nearly all the bacteria (except for S. sonnei) were
present in samples from Lake Soyang, Lake Juam, and the Moolgeum region in
Nakdong River, while C. jejuni was detected in those from the Guui region in Han 
River. During the six-year sampling period, individual targeted noxious bacteria 
in water samples exhibited seasonal patterns in their occurrence that were
different from the indicator bacteria levels in the water samples. The fact that 
they were detected in the five Korea's representative water environments make it 
necessary to establish the chemical and biological analysis for noxious bacteria 
and sophisticated management systems in response to climate change.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.2004.04064 
PMID: 32807755 

