
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Sep 14. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-02034-3. [Epub ahead of
print]

Shigella sonnei: virulence and antibiotic resistance.

Shad AA(1), Shad WA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Microbiology, University of Agriculture, Faisalabad, 38040,
Pakistan. ahtesham.ashad@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, University of Agriculture, Faisalabad, Pakistan.

Shigella sonnei is the emerging pathogen globally, as it is the second common
infectious species of shigellosis (bloody diarrhoea) in low- and middle-income
countries (LMICs) and the leading one in developed world. The multifactorial
processes and novel mechanisms have been identified in S. sonnei, that are
collectively playing apart a substantial role in increasing its prevalence, while
replacing the S. flexneri and other Gram-negative gut pathogens niche occupancy. 
Recently, studies suggest that due to improvement in sanitation S. sonnei has
reduced cross-immunization from Plesiomonas shigelliodes (having same O-antigen
as S. sonnei) and also found to outcompete the two major species of
Enterobacteriaceae family (Shigella flexneri and Escherichia coli), due to
encoding of type VI secretion system (T6SS). This review aimed to highlight S.
sonnei as an emerging pathogen in the light of recent research with pondering
aspects on its epidemiology, transmission, and pathogenic mechanisms.
Additionally, this paper aimed to review S. sonnei disease pattern and related
complications, symptoms, and laboratory diagnostic techniques. Furthermore, the
available treatment reigns and antibiotic-resistance patterns of S. sonnei are
also discussed, as the ciprofloxacin and fluoroquinolone-resistant S. sonnei has 
already intensified the global spread and burden of antimicrobial resistance. In 
last, prevention and controlling strategies are briefed to limit and tackle S.
sonnei and possible future areas are also explored that needed more research to
unravel the hidden mysteries surrounding S. sonnei.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-02034-3 
PMCID: PMC7489455
PMID: 32929595 

