
1. Toxicol Rep. 2020 May 8;7:649-657. doi: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2020.04.013. eCollection
2020.

Antibacterial activity and subchronic toxicity of Cassia fistula L. barks in
rats.

Chaerunisaa AY(1), Susilawati Y(2), Muhaimin M(3), Milanda T(2), Hendriani R(4), 
Subarnas A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics and Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of
Pharmacy, Universitas Padjadjaran, Sumedang 45363, Indonesia.
(2)Department of Pharmacy Biology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universitas Padjadjaran, 
Sumedang 45363, Indonesia.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science and Technology, University of
Jambi, Jl. Raya Jambi-Muara Bulian Km 15 Mendalo Indah, Jambi 36361, Indonesia.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Universitas Padjadjaran,
Sumedang 45363, Indonesia.

Increasing incidence of antibiotic resistance necessitates the development of
more potent antibiotics. The aim of this work was to evaluate the antibacterial
activity of Cassia fistula L. barks as an alternative agent for resistant
pathogenic bacteria. The C. fistula barks were extracted with ethanol, followed
by partition of the extract to give n-hexane, ethyl acetate and water fractions. 
An in vitro antibacterial assay was conducted to evaluate inhibitory activity of 
the extract and fractions against Salmonella typhosa and Shigella dysenteriae. An
in vivo antibacterial activity was examined using S. typhosa-infected mouse
models, in which the colony number of S. typhosa were counted from the infected
rats' feces. Assesment on safety of the extract was conducted by a subchronic
toxicity test which mainly examined alteration occured in biochemical parameters 
and hystopatological conditions of livers and kidneys. The results showed that
the ethanol extract inhibited the growth of both S. typhosa and S. dysenteriae
with the MIC of 0.3125% w/v, and the ethyl acetate fraction with the MIC of
0.625% b/v. In the in vivo antibacterial assay, the extract at three doses
decreased the colony number of S. typhosa significantly, and after the fourth to 
sixth days, the precentage of decrease reached more than 90% by 1000 mg/kg dose. 
The subchronic toxicity test revealed that after the extract exposured for
90 days, a dose of 1000 mg/kg induced liver and kidney damages histologically,
however, it returned to normal condition after 30 days of recovery. The results
of this study indicated that the extract of C. fistula L. barks had potent in
vivo antibacterial activity against S. typhosa as sample of resistant bacteria,
and is safe to be used as a herbal medicine, preferably at a dose lower than
1000 mg/kg.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2020.04.013 
PMCID: PMC7240208
PMID: 32461915 

