
1. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Sep 22;17(18). pii: E6912. doi:
10.3390/ijerph17186912.

Health Risks and Potential Sources of Contamination of Groundwater Used by Public
Schools in Vhuronga 1, Limpopo Province, South Africa.

Odiyo JO(1), Mathoni MM(1), Makungo R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hydrology and Water Resources, University of Venda, Thohoyandou 
0950, South Africa.

Public schools in most rural areas of South Africa depend on untreated
groundwater due to unreliable water supply by the municipalities. This has the
potential to cause water-related health problems to school children. Temperature,
pH, and electrical conductivity (EC) were measured in situ. Chemical (fluoride,
chloride, sulphate, phosphate, nitrate, magnesium, calcium, sodium, and
potassium) and microbial (Escherichia coliform (E. coli), Salmonella typhimurium,
and Shigella flexneri) water quality parameters were analysed in groundwater
samples from 10 public schools in Vhuronga 1 to determine suitability for use.
Quantitative microbial risk assessment was carried out to determine risks of
infection and illness due to consumption of groundwater. Correlation analysis was
used to identify potential sources of contamination. All physical and most
chemical water quality parameters were within guidelines for domestic water use. 
A high proportion of schools had high levels of microbial organisms. Risks of
infection per day were relatively low for all schools. The annual risks of
infection due to E. coli and Shigella flexneri for most schools was high, with
maximum values of 89.11 and 83.75%, respectively. Maximum risks of illness per
year were 31.19, 30.37, and 29.31% for E. coli, Salmonella typhimurium, and
Shigella flexneri, respectively. Correlation analysis indicated potential
contamination of groundwater by agricultural activities, domestic waste, and
faecal contamination from pit latrines. Preventive and mitigation measures to
minimise such risks, including locating boreholes at safe distances from pit
latrines, prevention/minimisation of pollution of groundwater from agricultural
activities, and point-of-use treatment of groundwater by the schools are
therefore essential.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17186912 
PMID: 32971739 

