
1. Food Sci Nutr. 2020 May 28;8(7):3665-3672. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.1649. eCollection
2020 Jul.

Differentiation of stx1A gene for detection of Escherichia coli serotype O157: H7
and Shigella dysenteriae type 1 in food samples using high resolution melting
curve analysis.

Pakbin B(1), Akhondzadeh Basti A(1), Khanjari A(1), Azimi L(2), Karimi A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Hygiene and Quality of Control Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine University of Tehran Tehran Iran.
(2)Pediatric Infections Research Center Research Institute of children's Health
Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences Tehran Iran.

Escherichia coli serotype O157: H7 and Shigella dysenteriae type 1 as the Shiga
toxin-producing bacteria cause some acute gastrointestinal and extraintestinal
diseases such as hemorrhagic uremic syndrome and bloody diarrhea in human. Stx
genes are the key virulence factors in these pathogens. The aim of this study was
to develop HRMA assay to differentiate stx1A gene for detection of E. coli
serotype O157: H7 and Sh. dysenteriae type 1 and determine the prevalence of
these pathogens in food samples using this method. PCR-HRMA assay and gold
standard methods have been carried out for identification of pathogens among 135 
different food samples. We found HRMA method a sensitive and specific assay (100 
and 100%, respectively) for differentiation of stx1A gene, consequently,
detection of these pathogens in food samples. Also, the highest prevalence of E. 
coli serotype O157: H7 and Sh. dysenteriae type 1 harboring stx1A gene was
observed in raw milk and vegetable salad samples, respectively. HRMA as a rapid, 
inexpensive, sensitive and specific method is suggested to be used for
differentiation of stx1A gene to detect E. coli serotype O157: H7 and Sh.
dysenteriae type 1 as the key pathogens for safety evaluation of food samples.

Â© 2020 The Authors. Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.1649 
PMCID: PMC7382201
PMID: 32724629 

