
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Jul;144:104188. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104188. Epub 2020
Apr 6.

Microbial synthesized cadmium oxide nanoparticles induce oxidative stress and
protein leakage in bacterial cells.

Azam Z(1), Ayaz A(2), Younas M(3), Qureshi Z(1), Arshad B(4), Zaman W(5), Ullah
F(6), Nasar MQ(1), Bahadur S(7), Irfan MM(8), Hussain S(9), Saqib S(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Mohi-ud-Din Islamic University, Nerian Sharif,
AJ&K, Pakistan.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Biocatalysis and Enzyme Engineering, School of Life
Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan, 434200, China. Electronic address:
asmaayaz@bs.qau.edu.pk.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Mohi-ud-Din Islamic University, Nerian Sharif,
AJ&K, Pakistan. Electronic address: younasktk@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Mohi-ud-Din Islamic University, Nerian Sharif,
AJ&K, Pakistan; Pakistan Council for Science and Technology, Ministry of Science 
and Technology Islamabad, 45320, Pakistan. Electronic address:
bushrarshad1988@gmail.com.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, Institute of
Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100093, China; University of
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China. Electronic address:
shangla123@gmail.com.
(6)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China; CAS Key
Laboratory of Mountain Ecological Restoration and Bioresource Utilization,
Chengdu Institute of Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chengdu, Sichuan,
610041, China. Electronic address: fazalbotanist@gmail.com.
(7)College of Forestry, Hainan University Haikou, 570228, China.
(8)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China; State Key
Laboratory of Vegetation and Environmental Change Botany, Institute of Botany,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100093, China.
(9)Henan Key Laboratory of Boron Chemistry and Advanced Energy Materials, School 
of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Henan Normal University, Xinxiang, China.
(10)Department of Biotechnology, Mohi-ud-Din Islamic University, Nerian Sharif,
AJ&K, Pakistan; State Key Laboratory of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany,
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100093, China;
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China. Electronic
address: saddamsaqib.qau@gmail.com.

The bactericidal activity of metal oxide nanoparticles (NPs) offers extensive
opportunities in bioengineering and biomedicines. Bioengineered transition metals
used in various forms against lethal microbes. In this study, Cadmium Oxide
nanoparticles (CdO-NPs) were prepared through the co-precipitation method using
fungal strain Penicillium oxalicum and cadmium acetate solution. The structure
and elemental composition of the prepared NPs were determined by X-ray
diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), UV-Vis
absorption spectroscopy, scanning electron microscope (SEM) and energy dispersive
spectroscopy (EDS). Antibacterial activity was assessed through well diffusion
method against Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), Shigella dysenteriae (S.
dysenteriae), and Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa). In addition, reactive
oxygen species (ROS), reducing sugars and protein leakage contribution was
examined against selected strains. The XRD analysis proved that the synthesized
CdO-NPs possess a crystalline structure with an average crystalline size of
40-80 nm. FTIR confirmed the presence of organic compounds on the particle
surface, while UV showed stability of the particles. SEM and EDS confirmed that
CdO-NPs were successfully prepared and spherical. The maximum zone of inhibition 
against S. dysenteriae and P. aeruginosa was found and showed a less optical
density of 0.086 after 18 h. ROS, reducing sugar, and protein leakage assay
showed a significant difference as compared to control. Based on the present
study, it is recommended that microbial mediated synthesized nanoparticles can be
used as biomedicines for the treatment of different types of bacterial
infections.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104188 
PMID: 32272217 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest We wish to
confirm that there are no known conflicts of interest associated with this
publication and there has been no significant financial support for this work
that could have influenced its outcome.

