
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Aug 21;21(17). pii: E6038. doi: 10.3390/ijms21176038.

Lipopolysaccharide-Linked Enterobacterial Common Antigen (ECALPS) Occurs in Rough
Strains of Escherichia coli R1, R2, and R4.

Maciejewska A(1), Kaszowska M(1), Jachymek W(1), Lugowski C(1), Lukasiewicz J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Microbial Immunochemistry and Vaccines, Ludwik Hirszfeld
Institute of Immunology and Experimental Therapy, Polish Academy of Sciences,
Weigla 12, 53-114 Wroclaw, Poland.

Enterobacterial common antigen (ECA) is a conserved surface antigen
characteristic for Enterobacteriaceae. It is consisting of trisaccharide
repeating unit, →3)-α-d-Fucp4NAc-(1→4)-β-d-ManpNAcA-(1→4)-α-d-GlcpNAc-(1→, where 
prevailing forms include ECA linked to phosphatidylglycerol (ECAPG) and cyclic
ECA (ECACYC). Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-associated form (ECALPS) has been proved
to date only for rough Shigella sonnei phase II. Depending on the structure
organization, ECA constitutes surface antigen (ECAPG and ECALPS) or maintains the
outer membrane permeability barrier (ECACYC). The existence of LPS was
hypothesized in the 1960-80s on the basis of serological observations. Only a few
Escherichia coli strains (i.e., R1, R2, R3, R4, and K-12) have led to the
generation of anti-ECA antibodies upon immunization, excluding ECAPG as an
immunogen and conjecturing ECALPS as the only immunogenic form. Here, we
presented a structural survey of ECALPS in E. coli R1, R2, R3, and R4 to
correlate previous serological observations with the presence of ECALPS. The low 
yields of ECALPS were identified in the R1, R2, and R4 strains, where ECA
occupied outer core residues of LPS that used to be substituted by O-specific
polysaccharide in the case of smooth LPS. Previously published observations and
hypotheses regarding the immunogenicity and biosynthesis of ECALPS were discussed
and correlated with presented herein structural data.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21176038 
PMCID: PMC7504096
PMID: 32839412 

