
1. Mikrochim Acta. 2020 Apr 28;187(5):290. doi: 10.1007/s00604-020-04248-0.

SERS-based immunocapture and detection of pathogenic bacteria using a boronic
acid-functionalized polydopamine-coated Au@Ag nanoprobe.

Wang Y(1), Li Q(1), Zhang R(1), Tang K(2), Ding C(3), Yu S(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Fudan University, 2205 Songhu Rd., Shanghai, 200438, 
China.
(2)Institute of Mass Spectrometry, School of Material Science and Chemical
Engineering, Ningbo University, 818 Fenghua Rd., Ningbo, 315211, Zhejiang, China.
(3)Institute of Mass Spectrometry, School of Material Science and Chemical
Engineering, Ningbo University, 818 Fenghua Rd., Ningbo, 315211, Zhejiang, China.
dingchuanfan@nbu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Fudan University, 2205 Songhu Rd., Shanghai, 200438, 
China. yushaoning@fudan.edu.cn.
(5)Institute of Mass Spectrometry, School of Material Science and Chemical
Engineering, Ningbo University, 818 Fenghua Rd., Ningbo, 315211, Zhejiang, China.
yushaoning@fudan.edu.cn.

A surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS)-based immunocapture nanoprobe is
described for the detection of pathogenic bacteria. The probe uses boronic
acid-functionalized polydopamine-coated Au@Ag nanoparticles as an advanced SERS
nanotag. Modified magnetic IgG@Fe3O4 nanoparticles are used for magnetic
separation. Au@Ag@PDA nanoparticles, where PDA stands for polydopamine, were
functionalized with boronic acid to bind to pathogenic bacteria and induce signal
amplification. The Raman signal is amplified 108 times when the SERS tag binds
the surface of bacteria. The SERS spectra exhibit fingerprint-like patterns that 
enable bacterial classification. The results of principal component analysis
(PCA) and hierarchical cluster analysis (HCA) of the spectral regions were
compared. The bacterial surface protein and glycan signals (1300-1450 cm-1) were 
the best regions for bacterial classification. Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia
coli, Shigella dysenteriae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Klebsiella pneumonia were
successfully classified by this method. The lowest detection limit was 10
colonies/mL (CFU·mL). The assay can be completed within 30 min. Conceivably, this
method may be extended to the quantitative detection or classification of
bacteria under various other conditions. Graphical abstract Schematic
representation of immunocapture and detection of pathogenic bacteria using
boronic acid-functionalized polydopamine-coated Au@Ag nanoprobe through the
bacterial surface protein and glycan signals. Green arrow: laser; black arrow:
SERS; red ball: bacteria; grey ball: IgG@Fe3O4; golden ball: boronic
acid-functionalized Au@Ag@PDA.

DOI: 10.1007/s00604-020-04248-0 
PMID: 32342176 

