
1. Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces. 2020 Jun;190:110940. doi:
10.1016/j.colsurfb.2020.110940. Epub 2020 Mar 4.

Surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopic-based aptasensor for Shigella sonnei using a
dual-functional metal complex-ligated gold nanoparticles dimer.

Wu S(1), Duan N(2), He C(3), Yu Q(3), Dai S(4), Wang Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi
214122, China; School of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi
214122, China; International Joint Laboratory on Food Safety, Jiangnan
University, Wuxi 214122, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi
214122, China; School of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi
214122, China; International Joint Laboratory on Food Safety, Jiangnan
University, Wuxi 214122, China. Electronic address: duannuo@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(3)School of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214122,
China.
(4)Taicang Customs of the People's Republic of China, Suzhou 215400, China.

Herein, we constructed an aptamer-based sensor for the sensitive and highly
specific detection of Shigella sonnei via surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy
(SERS) analysis. A composite material integrated of the Raman active 4-MBA ligand
of the Eu-complex and citrate-stabilized Au nanoparticles (cit-Au NPs) was
synthesized and served as both active substrate and Raman reporter. Aptamers
targeted to S. Sonnei was then modified onto the surface of this dual-functional 
material. With the introduction of S. Sonnei, aptamer bound with target with high
affinity and specificity, leaving the dual-functional material onto the bacteria.
The SERS intensity response showed a strong positive linear correlation
(R = 0.9956) with increasing concentrations of S. sonnei (ranging from 10 to 106 
cfu/mL). High specificity was achieved at Shigella species (S. dysenteriae, S.
flexneri, S. boydii) and other common bacteria (Salmonella typhimurium,
Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli). When applied in real samples, the
approach showed recoveries from 92.6 to 103.8 %. The designed approach holds
great potential for the construction of various aptasensors for the effective and
convenient detection of different food hazards.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.colsurfb.2020.110940 
PMID: 32151909 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

