
1. Clin Exp Vaccine Res. 2020 Jan;9(1):15-25. doi: 10.7774/cevr.2020.9.1.15. Epub
2020 Jan 31.

Reverse vaccinology approach for the identification and characterization of outer
membrane proteins of Shigella flexneri as potential cellular- and
antibody-dependent vaccine candidates.

Leow CY(1), Kazi A(1), Hisyam Ismail CMK(1), Chuah C(2), Lim BH(3), Leow CH(4),
Banga Singh KK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Molecular Medicine, Universiti Sains Malaysia,
Kubang Kerian, Malaysia.
(2)School of Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Kubang Kerian,
Malaysia.
(3)School of Health Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Kubang Kerian, Malaysia.
(4)Institute for Research in Molecular Medicine, Universiti Sains Malaysia,
Gelugor, Malaysia.

Purpose: In the developing world, bacillary dysentery is one of the most common
communicable diarrheal infections. There are approximately 169 million cases of
shigellosis reported worldwide. The disease is transmitted by a group of
Gram-negative intracellular enterobacteria known as Shigella flexneri, S. sonnei,
S. dysenteriae, and S. boydii. Conventional treatment regimens for Shigella have 
been less effective due to the development of resistant strains against
antibiotics. Therefore, an effective vaccine for the long term control of
Shigella transmission is urgently needed.
Materials and Methods: In this study, a reverse vaccinology approach was employed
to identify most conserved and immunogenic outer membrane proteins (OMPs) of S.
flexneri 2a.
Results: Five OMPs including fepA, ompC, nlpD_1, tolC, and nlpD_2 were identified
as potential vaccine candidates. Protein-protein interactions analysis using
STRING software (https://string-db.org/) revealed that five of these OMPs may
potentially interact with other intracellular proteins which are involved in
beta-lactam resistance pathway. B- and T-cell epitopes of the selected OMPs were 
predicted using BCPred as well as Propred I and Propred
(http://crdd.osdd.net/raghava/propred/), respectively. Each of these OMPs
contains regions which are capable to induce B- and T-cell immune responses.
Conclusion: Analysis acquired from this study showed that five selected OMPs have
great potential for vaccine development against S. flexneri infection. The
predicted immunogenic epitopes can also be used for development of peptide
vaccines or multi-epitope vaccines against human shigellosis. Reverse vaccinology
is a promising strategy for the discovery of potential vaccine candidates which
can be used for future vaccine development against global persistent infections.

Â© Korean Vaccine Society.

DOI: 10.7774/cevr.2020.9.1.15 
PMCID: PMC7024733
PMID: 32095437 

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to
this article was reported.

