
1. Front Microbiol. 2019 Nov 7;10:2461. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02461. eCollection
2019.

Prevalence of Shigella boydii in Bangladesh: Isolation and Characterization of a 
Rare Phage MK-13 That Can Robustly Identify Shigellosis Caused by Shigella boydii
Type 1.

Akter M(1), Brown N(2), Clokie M(2), Yeasmin M(1), Tareq TM(1), Baddam R(1), Azad
MAK(1)(3), Ghosh AN(4), Ahmed N(1), Talukder KA(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh (icddr,b),
Dhaka, Bangladesh.
(2)Department of Genetics and Genome Biology, University of Leicester, Leicester,
United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Shahjalal University of
Science and Technology, Sylhet, Bangladesh.
(4)Division of Electron Microscopy, ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and
Enteric Diseases, Kolkata, India.
(5)Department of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Mawlana Bhashani Science 
and Technology University, Tangail, Bangladesh.

Shigellosis, caused by Shigella boydii type 1, is understudied and underreported.
For 3 years, GEMS study identified 5.4% of all Shigella as S. boydii. We showed
the prevalent serotypes of S. boydii in Bangladesh and phage-based diagnosis of
S. boydii type 1, a rapid and low-cost approach. Previously typed 793 clinical S.
boydii strains were used for serotype distribution. Twenty-eight environmental
water samples were collected for isolation of Shigella phages. Forty-eight
serotypes of Shigella and other enteric bacteria were used for testing the
susceptibility to phage MK-13. Electron microscopy, restriction enzyme analysis, 
whole genome sequencing (WGS), and annotation were performed for extensive
characterization. S. boydii type 1 is the second most prevalent serotype among 20
serotypes of S. boydii in Bangladesh. We isolated a novel phage, MK-13, which
specifically lyses S. boydii type 1, but doesn't lyse other 47 serotypes of
Shigella or other enteric bacteria tested. The phage belongs to the Myoviridae
family and distinct from other phages indicated by electron microscopy and
restriction enzyme analysis, respectively. MK-13 genome consists of 158 kbp of
circularly permuted double-stranded DNA with G + C content of 49.45%, and encodes
211 open reading frames including four tRNA-coding regions. The genome has 98%
identity with previously reported phage, ΦSboM-AG3, reported to have a broader
host range infecting most of the S. boydii and other species of Shigella tested. 
To our knowledge, MK-13 is the first phage reported to be used as a diagnostic
marker to detect S. boydii type 1, especially in remote settings with limited
laboratory infrastructure.

Copyright © 2019 Akter, Brown, Clokie, Yeasmin, Tareq, Baddam, Azad, Ghosh, Ahmed
and Talukder.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02461 
PMCID: PMC6853846
PMID: 31787934 

