
1. Biomed Res Int. 2020 Jun 9;2020:7132812. doi: 10.1155/2020/7132812. eCollection
2020.

Detection of Extended-Spectrum β-Lactamases (ESBL) Producing Enterobacteriaceae
from Fish Trapped in the Lagoon Area of Bizerte, Tunisia.

Hassen B(1), Jouini A(2), Elbour M(3), Hamrouni S(2), Maaroufi A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Veterinary Research of Tunisia, University Tunis El Manar, 20 rue
Jebel Lakhdhar, Bab Saadoun, Tunis 1006, Tunisia.
(2)Laboratory of Epidemiology and Veterinary Microbiology, Group of Bacteriology 
and Biotechnology Development, Institute Pasteur of Tunis, University of Tunis El
Manar, Tunisia.
(3)Marine Laboratory, The National Institute of Sciences and Technology of the
Sea, University of Carthage, 2025 Salammbô, Tunisia.

Extended-spectrum β-lactamase and their molecular mechanism in Enterobacteriaceae
were analyzed in 126 fish samples of 9 various wild species, living in the lagoon
of Bizerte in Tunisia. Fifty-nine (59) Gram-negative strains were isolated and
identified as Escherichia coli (n = 24), Klebsiella pneumonia (n = 21),
Citrobacter freundii (n = 8), and Shigella boydii (n = 6). Forty-seven ESBL
producers were identified using the synergic test. β-Lactamase genes detected
were bla CTX-M-1 (E. coli/15; K. pneumonia/8; C. freundii/1; Sh. boydii/1), bla
CTX-M-1+ bla OXA-1 (E. coli/4; K. pneumonia/3), bla CTX-M-1+ bla TEM-1-a (K.
pneumonia/2), bla CTX-M-15+ bla TEM-1-a (K. pneumonia/1; Sh. boydii/1), bla
CTX-M-15+ bla OXA-1 (K. pneumonia/1), bla CTX-M-15 (E. coli/3; K. pneumonia/1;
Sh. boydii/3), and bla CTX-M-9 (C. freundii/3). Most strains (84.7%) showed a
multiresistant phenotype. qnrA and qnrB genes were identified in six E. coli and 
in ten E. coli+one K. pneumonia isolates, respectively. The resistance to
tetracycline and sulfonamide was conferred by the tet and sul genes.
Characterization of phylogenic groups in E. coli isolates revealed phylogroups D 
(n = 20 strains), B2 (n = 2), and A (n = 2). The studied virulence factor showed 
prevalence of fimA genes in 9 E. coli isolates (37.5%). Similarly, no strain
revealed the three other virulence factors tested (eae, aer, and cnf1). Our
findings confirmed that the lagoons of Bizerte may be a reservoir of multidrug
resistance/ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae. This could lead to indisputable
impacts on human and animal health, through the food chain.

Copyright © 2020 Bilel Hassen et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/7132812 
PMCID: PMC7303757
PMID: 32596358 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest.

