
1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2020 Jul 3;163:423-430. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.06.291.
[Epub ahead of print]

Extraction, characterization and antimicrobial activity of chitosan from pen
shell, Pinna bicolor.

Sudatta BP(1), Sugumar V(2), Varma R(1), Nigariga P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oceanography and Coastal Area Studies, Alagappa University,
Science Campus, Karaikudi 630 003, Tamilnadu, India.
(2)Department of Oceanography and Coastal Area Studies, Alagappa University,
Science Campus, Karaikudi 630 003, Tamilnadu, India. Electronic address:
sugumarv@alagappauniversity.ac.in.

Chitosan is a biopolymer discovered abundantly on earth specifically in the
exoskeleton of shrimps, crabs and insects. In the present study, isolation and
characterization of chitosan from the pen shell Pinna bicolor was carried out. In
addition to this, the chitosan acquired from the pen shell was tested for its
antibacterial activity against five bacterial strains. The FTIR analysis
confirmed the presence of NH out of plane bending (872 cm-1) and C-O-C stretching
(1016 cm-1) for chitosan with 59.76% degree of deacetylation. The Micro Raman
showed peaks at 1658 cm-1, 1595 cm-1 and at 954 cm-1 corresponding to chitosan.
The XRD was able to establish the crystallinity of the chitosan sample with a
maximum peak at 29.3°. The elemental analysis of chitosan sample confirmed higher
level of carbon (10.75%) when compared to other elements such as nitrogen,
hydrogen and sulphur. The antimicrobial activity of extracted chitosan was
evident with greater zone of inhibition against Salmonella typhi (20 mm) and
least against Shigella dysenteriae. Thus, the present study unravels the
properties of chitosan extracted from P. bicolor thereby paving way for its
further use in the field of biomedical science and nanotechnology.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2020.06.291 
PMID: 32629046 

