
1. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 Sep;39(9):1727-1737. doi:
10.1007/s10096-020-03908-6. Epub 2020 Apr 29.

Molecular characterization of Shigella species isolated from diarrheal patients
in Tehran, Iran: phylogenetic typing and its association with virulence gene
profiles and a novel description of Shigella invasion associated locus.

Arabshahi S(1), Novinrooz A(2), Ranjbar R(1), Imani Fooladi AA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Applied Microbiology Research Center, Systems Biology and Poisonings
Institute, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Pathobiology, School of Veterinary Medicine, Shiraz University, 
Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Applied Microbiology Research Center, Systems Biology and Poisonings
Institute, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
Imanifouladi.a@gmail.com.

The present study aims to employ a multiplex PCR-based method for phylogenetic
typing of Shigella and determine the frequency of several virulence genes among
Shigella phylogenetic clades and species. Species identification, phylogenetic
typing of 44 previously diagnosed Shigella isolates, and frequency of virulence
genes and loci, virA, virB, virF, ipaBCD, ial, sen, and set1A were investigated
through performing several PCR assays. Distribution of virulence genes among
Shigella phylogenetic clades and species was determined by the statistical
analysis. The identities of 40 isolates out of 44 were confirmed as Shigella, and
these isolates were classified in four phylogenetic clades, S1 (7.5%), S2
(52.5%), S3 (20%), and S5 (20%) and 4 species, S. sonnei (52.5%), S. flexneri
(22.5%), S. dysenteriae (20%), and S. boydii (5%). The prevalence of virA, virB, 
virF, ipaBCD, ial, sen, and set1A was determined as 67.5%, 72.5%, 72.5%, 65%,
75%, 40%, and 5%, respectively. The presence of sen, uidA, or set1A was found to 
be statistically correlated with either of Shigella phylogenetic clades or
species. A significant statistically association was also determined between
set1A and Shigella phylogenetic clades. Furthermore, the nucleotide sequence of
invasion-associated locus (ial) was determined and mapped on Shigella genome
through in silico analysis. The current study shows the distribution of Shigella 
isolates and its key virulence genes within the five recently described
phylogenetic clades for the first time in the Asia. This is also the first
description of ial nucleotide sequence and its exact location on Shigella genome 
after its initial identification.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-020-03908-6 
PMID: 32350738 

