
1. J Bacteriol. 2019 Nov 20;201(24). pii: e00493-19. doi: 10.1128/JB.00493-19. Print
2019 Dec 15.

Colicin U from Shigella boydii Forms Voltage-Dependent Pores.

Dolejšová T(1), Sokol A(1), Bosák J(2), Šmajs D(2), Konopásek I(1), Mikušová
G(1), Fišer R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Charles
University, Prague, Czech Republic.
(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Masaryk University, Kamenice,
Brno, Czech Republic.
(3)Department of Genetics and Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Charles
University, Prague, Czech Republic fiserr@natur.cuni.cz.

Colicin U is a protein produced by the bacterium Shigella boydii (serovars 1 and 
8). It exerts antibacterial activity against strains of the enterobacterial
genera Shigella and Escherichia Here, we report that colicin U forms
voltage-dependent pores in planar lipid membranes; its single-pore conductance
was found to be about 22 pS in 1 M KCl at pH 6 under 80 mV in asolectin bilayers.
In agreement with the high degree of homology between their C-terminal domains,
colicin U shares some pore characteristics with the related colicins A and B.
Colicin U pores are strongly pH dependent, and as we deduced from the activity of
colicin U in planar membranes at different protein concentrations, they have a
monomeric pore structure. However, in contrast to related colicins, we observed a
very low cationic selectivity of colicin U pores (1.5/1 of K+/Cl- at pH 6) along 
with their atypical voltage gating. Finally, using nonelectrolytes, we determined
the inner diameter of the pores to be in the range of 0.7 to 1 nm, which is
similar to colicin Ia, but with a considerably different inner profile.IMPORTANCE
Currently, a dramatic increase in antibiotic resistance is driving researchers to
find new antimicrobial agents. The large group of toxins called bacteriocins
appears to be very promising from this point of view, especially because their
narrow killing spectrum allows specific targeting against selected bacterial
strains. Colicins are a subgroup of bacteriocins that act on Gram-negative
bacteria. To date, some colicins are commercially used for the treatment of
animals (1) and tested as a component of engineered species-specific
antimicrobial peptides, which are studied for the potential treatment of humans
(2). Here, we present a thorough single-molecule study of colicin U which leads
to a better understanding of its mode of action. It extends the range of
characterized colicins available for possible future medical applications.

Copyright © 2019 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.00493-19 
PMCID: PMC6872204
PMID: 31548276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

