
1. J Infect Chemother. 2020 Sep;26(9):955-958. doi: 10.1016/j.jiac.2020.04.022. Epub
2020 May 20.

High rate of resistance to ceftriaxone and azithromycin among Shigella spp.
isolates at three children's referral hospitals in Northeast Iran.

Salimiyan Rizi K(1), Farsiani H(1), Sasan MS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Virology, School of Medicine, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Antimicrobial Resistance Research 
Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Department of Pediatric Infectious Disease, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. Electronic address:
sasanms@mums.ac.ir.

Acute dysentery is a prevalent case of hospital admission in developing
countries, whose most common cause is believed to be Shigella species. Treatment 
failure employing oral or intravenous antibiotics is an increasing problem among 
children with dysentery. This is a prospective descriptive study that aims to
find the antibiotic resistance pattern of Shigella spp. isolates from children
with acute diarrhea in three children's referral hospitals in Mashhad,
northeast-Iran. Between February 2018 to September 2019, a total of 233 stool
samples were collected from children with inflammatory diarrhea. Shigella spp.
were identified by culture and biochemical standard tests. Moreover, polyvalent
Shigella antisera were used for serogrouping. The antibiotic susceptibility was
performed by disk diffusion method. During the 9-month study period, a total of
94 non-duplicate clinical Shigella spp. were identified by culture and
biochemical tests. Based on slide agglutination with appropriate group-specific
polyvalent antisera, Shigella sonnei (70.2%) was found to be the most prevalent
Shigella spp. followed by S. flexeneri (23.4%), S. dysentery (1%). Among
isolates, S. boydii was not detected and five isolates (5.3%) were nonserotypable
isolates. The resistance rate of Shigella spp. to azithromycin, ceftriaxone,
ciprofloxacin, co-trimoxazole, nalidixic acid, gentamicin, amoxicillin,
ampicillin, doxycycline and cefixime was 25.5%, 43.6%, 3.8%, 82.9%, 15.9%, 26.6%,
40.4%, 57.4%, 41.4%, 22.3%, respectively. The results revealed that the
resistance of Shigella spp. to the three most commonly utilized antibiotics
(azithromycin, ceftriaxone and, cefixime) is too high to recommend them as
empirical therapy for children with acute dysentery in this city.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jiac.2020.04.022 
PMID: 32446727 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no competing interests regarding the publication of this
article.

