
1. J Pathog. 2020 Jul 27;2020:3062821. doi: 10.1155/2020/3062821. eCollection 2020.

Invasion of Epithelial Cells Is Correlated with Secretion of Biosurfactant via
the Type 3 Secretion System (T3SS) of Shigella flexneri.

Kinouani Kinavouidi DJ(1)(2), Kayath CA(1)(2), Nguimbi E(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Biologie Cellulaire et Moléculaire (BCM), Faculté des Sciences 
et Techniques, Université Marien N'gouabi, BP. 69, Brazzaville, Congo.
(2)Institut National de Recherche en Sciences Exactes et Naturelles (IRSEN),
Avenue de l'Auberge Gascogne, B.P 2400, Brazzaville, Congo.

Biosurfactants are amphipathic molecules produced by many microorganisms, usually
bacteria, fungi, and yeasts. They possess the property of reducing the tension of
the membrane interfaces. No studies have been conducted on Shigella species
showing the role of biosurfactant-like molecules (BLM) in pathogenicity. The aim 
of this study is to assess the ability of Shigella environmental and clinical
strains to produce BLM and investigate the involvement of biosurfactants in
pathogenicity. Our study has shown that BLM are secreted in the extracellular
medium with EI24 ranging from 80% to 100%. The secretion is depending on the type
III secretion system (T3SS). Moreover, our results have shown that S. flexneri,
S. boydii, and S. sonnei are able to interact with hydrophobic areas with 17.64%,
21.42%, and 22.22% hydrophobicity, respectively. BLM secretion is totally
prevented due to inhibition of T3SS by 100 mM benzoic and 1.5 mg/ml salicylic
acids. P. aeruginosa harboring T3SS is able to produce 100% of BLM in the
presence or in the absence of both T3SS inhibitors. The secreted BLM are
extractable with an organic solvent such as chloroform, and this could entirely
be considered a lipopeptide or polypeptide compound. Secretion of BLM allows some
Shigella strains to induce multicellular phenomena like "swarming."

Copyright © 2020 Duchel Jeanedvi Kinouani Kinavouidi et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/3062821 
PMCID: PMC7411461
PMID: 32802515 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts
of interest.

