
1. Genes (Basel). 2020 Sep 3;11(9). pii: E1042. doi: 10.3390/genes11091042.

Newly Emerged Serotype 1c of Shigella flexneri: Multiple Origins and Changing
Drug Resistance Landscape.

Parajuli P(1), Minh BQ(2), Verma NK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biomedical Science and Biochemistry, Research School of Biology,
The Australian National University, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.
(2)Research School of Computer Science & Research School of Biology, The
Australian National University, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.

Bacillary dysentery caused by Shigella flexneri is a major cause of under-five
mortality in developing countries, where a novel S. flexneri serotype 1c has
become very common since the 1980s. However, the origin and diversification of
serotype 1c remain poorly understood. To understand the evolution of serotype 1c 
and their antimicrobial resistance, we sequenced and analyzed the whole-genome of
85 clinical isolates from the United Kingdom, Egypt, Bangladesh, Vietnam, and
Japan belonging to serotype 1c and related serotypes of 1a, 1b and Y/Yv. We
identified up to three distinct O-antigen modifying genes in S. flexneri 1c
strains, which were acquired from three different bacteriophages. Our analysis
shows that S. flexneri 1c strains have originated from serotype 1a and serotype
1b strains after the acquisition of bacteriophage-encoding gtrIc operon. The
maximum-likelihood phylogenetic analysis using core genes suggests two distinct
S. flexneri 1c lineages, one specific to Bangladesh, which originated from
ancestral serotype 1a strains and the other from the United Kingdom, Egypt, and
Vietnam originated from ancestral serotype 1b strains. We also identified 63
isolates containing multiple drug-resistant genes in them conferring resistance
against streptomycin, sulfonamide, quinolone, trimethoprim, tetracycline,
chloramphenicol, and beta-lactamase. Furthermore, antibiotic susceptibility
assays showed 83 (97.6%) isolates as either complete or intermediate resistance
to the WHO-recommended first- and second-line drugs. This changing drug
resistance pattern demonstrates the urgent need for drug resistance surveillance 
and renewed treatment guidelines.

DOI: 10.3390/genes11091042 
PMID: 32899396 

