
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Sep 24;10(1):15647. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-73193-y.

Chemical composition and antimicrobial activity of essential oils obtained from
leaves and flowers of Salvia hydrangea DC. ex Benth.

Ghavam M(1), Manca ML(2), Manconi M(2), Bacchetta G(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Range and Watershed Management, Faculty of Natural Resources and
Earth Sciences, University of Kashan, Kashan, Iran. mghavam@kashanu.ac.ir.
(2)Department Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Cagliari, Cagliari, 
Italy.
(3)Hortus Botanicus Karalitanus (HBK), University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.

The majority of essential oils obtained from vascular plants have been
demonstrated to be effective in treating fungal and bacterial infections. Among
others, Salvia hydrangea is an endemic half-shrub belonging to the Lamiaceae
family that has been widely used from ancient times in Iranian traditional
medicine. The aim of this study was to compare the composition and antimicrobial 
properties of essential oils obtained from leaves or flowers of this plant,
collected from the Daran region of Iran during June 2018. The oils were obtained 
using Clevenger apparatus, their composition was evaluated by means of gas
chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) and the antimicrobial properties were
assayed by measuring inhibition halos, minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and
minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC). The yield of leaf oil was ~ 0.25% and
that of flower oil was ~ 0.28%. Oil composition was affected by the part of the
plants used: the most abundant bioactives contained in leaf essential oil were
(+)-spathulenol (16.07%), 1,8-cineole (13.96%), trans-caryophyllene (9.58%),
β-pinene (8.91%) and β-eudesmol (5.33%) and those in flower essential oil were
caryophyllene oxide (35.47%), 1,8-cineole (9.54%), trans-caryophyllene (6.36%),
β-eudesmol (4.11%), caryophyllenol-II (3.46%) and camphor (3.33%). Both the oils 
showed a significant inhibitory and lethal effect on the Gram-negative bacteria
Pseudomonas aeruginosa (MIC ~ 16 µg/mL), Shigella dysenteriae and Klebsiella
pneumoniae (MIC ~ 62 µg/mL). Therefore, the essential oils obtained from both
leaves and flowers of S. hydrangea may have potential application as bactericidal
agents against some bacteria.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-73193-y 
PMCID: PMC7519093
PMID: 32973295 

