
1. Molecules. 2020 Aug 13;25(16). pii: E3683. doi: 10.3390/molecules25163683.

Unravelling the Antibacterial Activity of Terminalia sericea Root Bark through a 
Metabolomic Approach.

Anokwuru CP(1)(2), Tankeu S(2), van Vuuren S(3), Viljoen A(2)(4), Ramaite IDI(1),
Taglialatela-Scafati O(5), Combrinck S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Venda, Private Bag X5050, Thohoyandou
0950, South Africa.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tshwane University of Technology,
Private Bag X680, Pretoria 0001, South Africa.
(3)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, Faculty of Health Sciences,
University of the Witwatersrand, 7 York Road, Parktown 2193, South Africa.
(4)SAMRC Herbal Drugs Research Unit, Faculty of Science, Tshwane University of
Technology, Private Bag X680, Pretoria 0001, South Africa.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, University of Naples, Federico II Via D. Montesano 49,
1-80131 Napoli, Italy.

Terminalia sericea Burch. ex. DC. (Combretaceae) is a popular remedy for the
treatment of infectious diseases. It is widely prescribed by traditional healers 
and sold at informal markets and may be a good candidate for commercialisation.
For this to be realised, a thorough phytochemical and bioactivity profile is
required to identify constituents that may be associated with the antibacterial
activity and hence the quality of raw materials and consumer products. The aim of
this study was to explore the phytochemistry and identify the antibacterial
constituents of T. sericea root bark, using a metabolomic approach. The chemical 
profiles and antibacterial activities of 42 root bark samples collected from
three districts in the Limpopo Province, South Africa, were evaluated.
Dichloromethane:methanol (1:1) extracts were analysed using ultraperformance
liquid chromatography (UPLC)-mass spectrometry (MS), and chemometric models were 
constructed from the aligned data. The extracts were tested against Bacillus
cereus (ATCC 11778), Staphylococcus epidermidis (ATCC 12223), Staphylococcus
aureus (ATCC 25923), Escherichia coli (ATCC 8739), Klebsiella pneumoniae (ATCC
13883), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (ATCC 27853), Shigella sonnei (ATCC 9292) and
Salmonella typhimurium (ATCC 14028), using the minimum inhibition microdilution
assay. Nine compounds; sericic acid, sericoside, resveratrol-3-O-β-rutinoside,
ellagic acid, flavogallonic acid dilactone, methyl-flavogallonate,
quercetin-3-(2''-galloylrhamnoside),
resveratrol-3-(6''-galloyl)-O-β-d-glucopyranoside and arjunetin, were isolated
from the root bark. All the compounds, with the exception of sericic acid,
sericoside and resveratrol-3-O-β-rutinoside, were isolated for the first time
from the root bark of T. sericea. Chemometric analysis revealed clustering that
was not population specific, and the presence of three groupings within the
samples, characterised by sericic acid, sericoside and an unidentified compound
(m/z 682/4.66 min), respectively. The crude extracts from different populations
displayed varied antibacterial activities against S. typhimurium (minimum
inhibitory concentrations (MICs) 0.25-1.0 mg/mL), but similar activity towards
Bacillus cereus (1.0 mg/mL). Several compounds present in the root bark were
highly active towards all or most of the pathogens tested, but this activity was 
not reflected by the chemical profiles of extracts prepared from the individual
samples. Among the pure compounds tested, only flavogallonic acid dilactone and
methyl-flavogallonate exhibited broad-spectrum activity. A biochemometric
analysis indicated that there was no consistent association between the levels of
phytochemicals and the activity of the active or non-active extracts. Although it
was deduced that the major constituents of T. sericea root bark contributed to
the chemotypic variation, further investigation of the interactions of compounds 
present in the root bark may provide antibacterial efficacies not evident when
examining compounds singularly. The data reported herein will provide information
that is fundamentally important for the development of quality control protocols.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25163683 
PMCID: PMC7464275
PMID: 32823484 

