
1. J Trop Med. 2020 Jun 4;2020:2803063. doi: 10.1155/2020/2803063. eCollection 2020.

In Vitro Antibacterial Activities of Methanolic Extracts of Fruits, Seeds, and
Bark of Zanthoxylum armatum DC.

Phuyal N(1)(2), Jha PK(1), Raturi PP(3), Rajbhandary S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Central Department of Botany, Tribhuvan University, Kirtipur, Kathmandu,
Nepal.
(2)Forest Research and Training Center, Ministry of Forests and Environment,
Babarmahal, Kathmandu, Nepal.
(3)Ashok Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Center, Dabur Nepal Pvt. Ltd., Janagal,
Kavre, Nepal.

Crude methanol extracts of fruits, seeds, and bark of Zanthoxylum armatum were
investigated in vitro for antimicrobial activities against 9 different bacterial 
strains: Bacillus subtilis, Enterococcus faecalis, Proteus vulgaris, Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa, Salmonella typhi, Shigella dysenteriae, Staphylococcus aureus,
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), and Staphylococcus
epidermidis using agar well diffusion method, and the MBC values were determined.
Only 5 bacteria, i.e., Bacillus subtilis, Enterococcus faecalis, MRSA,
Staphylococcus aureus, and Staphylococcus epidermidis exhibited antibacterial
properties against the different extracts. The fruit and seed extracts showed
activities against 5 bacteria, while the bark extract was active against 2
bacteria only (MRSA and Staphylococcus aureus). Staphylococcus aureus was found
to be more susceptible for all the extracts compared to other strains. The
maximum ZOI of 20.72 mm was produced by fruits (wild) and 18.10 mm (cultivated)
against Staphylococcus aureus. Likewise, the least ZOI of 11.73 mm was produced
by seeds (wild) and 11.29 mm (cultivated) against Escherichia faecalis.
Similarly, the lowest MBC value of 0.78 mg/mL was obtained for fruit extracts
against MRSA, 1.56 mg/mL for fruits, seeds, and bark extracts against Bacillus
subtilis, MRSA, and Staphylococcus aureus, and highest value of 50 mg/mL for
fruits and seeds extracts against S. epidermidis. The fruits, seeds, and bark
extracts of Z. armatum exhibited remarkable antibacterial properties against
different pathogenic bacteria causing several diseases, which suggests the
potential use of this plant for treating different bacterial diseases such as
skin infection, urinary tract infection, dental problems, diarrhea, and
dysentery.

Copyright © 2020 Nirmala Phuyal et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/2803063 
PMCID: PMC7292994
PMID: 32565829 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts
of interest regarding the publication of this paper.

