
1. Folia Microbiol (Praha). 2020 Jun 24. doi: 10.1007/s12223-020-00804-6. [Epub
ahead of print]

Application of yeast surface display system in expression of recombinant pediocin
PA-1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Nguyen TPA(1)(2), Nguyen TTM(1)(2), Nguyen NH(1)(2), Nguyen TN(1)(2), Dang
TTP(3)(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Environmental Biotechnology, Faculty of Biology
and Biotechnology, University of Science, 227 Nguyen Van Cu St, Dist 5, Ho Chi
Minh City, Vietnam.
(2)Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(3)Department of Molecular and Environmental Biotechnology, Faculty of Biology
and Biotechnology, University of Science, 227 Nguyen Van Cu St, Dist 5, Ho Chi
Minh City, Vietnam. thaodp@hcmus.edu.vn.
(4)Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. thaodp@hcmus.edu.vn.
(5)Laboratory of Molecular Biotechnology, University of Science, Vietnam National
University - Ho Chi Minh City, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. thaodp@hcmus.edu.vn.

Pediocin PA-1 is a bacteriocin that shows strongly anti-microbial activity
against some Gram-positive pathogens such as Listeria monocytogenes,
Staphylococcus aureus, and Enterococcus faecalis. With the broad inhibitory
spectrum as well as high-temperature stability, pediocin has a potential
application in the food preservation and pharmaceutical industry. Pediocin has
been studied to express in many heterologous expression systems such as
Escherichia coli, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and Pichia pastoris as a free
peptide. Here we showed in this study a new strategy by using yeast surface
display system to produce the anchored pediocin PA-1 on the cell surface of
Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which could be used directly as a pediocin resource. We
had successfully constructed a recombinant S. cerevisiae W303 strain that could
express pediocin PA-1 on the cell surface. The pediocin-expressing yeast could
inhibit the growth of Shigella boydii and Shigella flexneri, which have never
been reported before for pediocin activity. Besides, the pediocin expression
level of the recombinant S. cerevisiae strain was also evaluated in three
different media: synthetic defined (SD), basic medium (BM), and fermentation
medium (FM). BM medium was shown to give the highest production yield of the
recombinant yeast (4.75 ± 0.75 g dry cell weight per 1 L of culture) with the
ratio number of the pediocin-expressing cells of 93.46 ± 2.45%. Taken together,
the results clearly showed that pediocin can be displayed on yeast cell surface
as anchored protein. The application of yeast cell surface system enables a new
door of pediocin application on either food or feed industries. Graphical
abstract.

DOI: 10.1007/s12223-020-00804-6 
PMID: 32578013 

