
1. ScientificWorldJournal. 2020 Jul 13;2020:1653180. doi: 10.1155/2020/1653180.
eCollection 2020.

Bactericidal Effect and Anti-Inflammatory Activity of Cassia garettiana Heartwood
Extract.

Panthong S(1)(2), Itharat A(1)(2), Naknarin S(3), Kuropakornpong P(3), Ooraikul
B(4), Sakpakdeejaroen I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Thai Traditional Medicine, Faculty of Medicine,
Thammasat University, Khlong Nueng, Pathumthani 12120, Thailand.
(2)Centre of Excellence in Applied Thai Traditional Medicine Research (CEATMR),
Thammasat University, Khlong Nueng, Pathumthani 12120, Thailand.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Thammasat University, Khlong Nueng, Pathumthani 12120,
Thailand.
(4)Bualuang ASEAN Chair Professorship, Thammasat University, Khlong Nueng,
Pathumthani 12120, Thailand.

Natural products are used as alternative drugs in traditional medicine to treat
infection and inflammation and relieve pain. Heartwood of Cassia garettiana Craib
has been investigated as an ingredient in Thai traditional medicine for anti-HIV 
protease, but there is no report on its antibacterial and anti-inflammatory
activities. The objectives of this study were to investigate the
anti-inflammatory and antibacterial activities, time-kill profile, and main
active constituents of an ethanolic extract of C. garettiana heartwood. The study
followed the generally accepted experimental design. All tests were investigated 
in triplicate. The heartwood of C. garettiana was extracted by maceration with
95% EtOH. The antibacterial activity of the extract and its chemical constituents
were determined by their MIC values using resazurin as an indicator. Time-kill
profile was determined at 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 24 hrs and expressed as log 
CFU/mL. The anti-inflammatory activity of the extract and its chemical components
was investigated by their inhibiting effect on IL-6 and TNF-α production by
ELISA. The ethanolic extract was analyzed for its chemical constituents by HPLC
technique. The ethanolic extract showed both dose- and time-dependent
bactericidal effects against Staphylococcus aureus, methicillin-resistance
Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa, Salmonella Typhi, Salmonella Typhimurium, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and 
Shigella dysenteriae with MIC values of 312.5, 312.5, 312.5, 1,250, 2,500, 625,
625, 2,500, and 625 μg/mL, respectively. It showed an inhibiting effect on IL-6
production at concentrations of 12.5 to 100 μg/mL. The main active chemical
constituent of C. garettiana was piceatannol that showed antibacterial activity
against all test bacteria except P. aeruginosa. C. garettiana showed a broad
spectrum of antibacterial activity against both Gram-negative and Gram-positive
bacteria. Piceatannol and resveratrol from the plant strongly inhibited IL-6
production. Based on these results, we concluded that the ethanolic extract of C.
garettiana showed both an antibacterial activity and inhibition of IL-6.
Piceatannol is the active constituent of the extract and showed anti-inflammatory
and antibacterial activities against Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria.

Copyright © 2020 Sumalee Panthong et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/1653180 
PMCID: PMC7374238
PMID: 32765193 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no financial or personal
conflicts of interest to declare.

