
1. Future Sci OA. 2020 Jan 29;6(4):FSO456. doi: 10.2144/fsoa-2019-0117.

Differential gene expression profile of Shigella dysenteriae causing bacteremia
in an immunocompromised individual.

Muthuirulandi Sethuvel DP(1), Devanga Ragupathi NK(1), Ninan MM(1), Michael
JS(1), Anandan S(1), Veeraraghavan B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Christian Medical College, Vellore
632004, India.

Aim: Shigella species has varying levels of virulence gene expression with
respect to different sites of infection. In this study, the differential gene
expression of S. dysenteriae in response to its site of infection was analyzed by
transcriptomics.
Methods: This study includes four clinical Shigella isolates. Transcriptomics was
done for the stool and blood samples of a single patient. Isolates were screened 
for the presence of antimicrobial resistance genes.
Results: The majority of genes involved in invasion were highly expressed in the 
strain isolated from the primary site of infection. Additionally, antimicrobial
resistance (dhfr1A, sulII, bla OXA. bla CTX-M-1 and qnrS) genes were identified.
Conclusion: This study provides a concise view of the transcriptional expression 
of clinical strains and provides a basis for future functional studies on
Shigella spp.

Â© 2020 Balaji Veeraraghavan.

DOI: 10.2144/fsoa-2019-0117 
PMCID: PMC7117556
PMID: 32257369 

Conflict of interest statement: Financial & competing interests disclosure The
authors have no relevant affiliations or financial involvement with any
organization or entity with a financial interest in or financial conflict with
the subject matter or materials discussed in the manuscript. This includes
employment, consultancies, honoraria, stock ownership or options, expert
testimony, grants or patents received or pending, or royalties. No writing
assistance was utilized in the production of this manuscript.

