
1. Toxins (Basel). 2020 May 11;12(5). pii: E316. doi: 10.3390/toxins12050316.

Verotoxin-1-Induced ER Stress Triggers Apoptotic or Survival Pathways in Burkitt 
Lymphoma Cells.

Debernardi J(1), Pioche-Durieu C(2), Cam EL(3), Wiels J(1), Robert A(4).

Author information: 
(1)UMR 8126 CNRS, Institut Gustave Roussy, Université Paris-Saclay, 94805
Villejuif, France.
(2)UMR 7592 CNRS, Institut Jacques Monod, Université Paris Diderot-Paris 7, CEDEX
13, 75205 Paris, France.
(3)UMR8200 CNRS, Institut Gustave Roussy, Université Paris-Saclay, 94805
Villejuif, France.
(4)INSERM U1279, Institut Gustave Roussy, Université Paris-Saclay, 94805
Villejuif, France.

Shiga toxins (Stxs) expressed by the enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli and
enteric Shigella dysenteriae 1 pathogens are protein synthesis inhibitors. Stxs
have been shown to induce apoptosis via the activation of extrinsic and intrinsic
pathways in many cell types (epithelial, endothelial, and B cells) but the link
between the protein synthesis inhibition and caspase activation is still unclear.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress induced by the inhibition of protein synthesis 
may be this missing link. Here, we show that the treatment of Burkitt lymphoma
(BL) cells with verotoxin-1 (VT-1 or Stx1) consistently induced the ER stress
response by activation of IRE1 and ATF6-two ER stress sensors-followed by
increased expression of the transcription factor C/REB homologous protein (CHOP).
However, our data suggest that, although ER stress is systematically induced by
VT-1 in BL cells, its role in cell death appears to be cell specific and can be
the opposite: ER stress may enhance VT-1-induced apoptosis through CHOP or play a
protective role through ER-phagy, depending on the cell line. Several engineered 
Stxs are currently under investigation as potential anti-cancer agents. Our
results suggest that a better understanding of the signaling pathways induced by 
Stxs is needed before using them in the clinic.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins12050316 
PMCID: PMC7291219
PMID: 32403276 

