
1. Environ Res. 2020 Aug;187:109620. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2020.109620. Epub 2020
May 8.

Sonophotocatalytic disinfection of Shigella species under visible light
irradiation: Insights into its molecular mechanism, antibacterial resistance and 
biofilm formation.

Rahman APH(1), Dash S(2), Mohanty PS(3), Mishra A(2), Lundborg CS(4), Tripathy
SK(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemical Technology, Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology,
Bhubaneswar, 751024, Odisha, India; School of Biotechnology, Kalinga Institute of
Industrial Technology, Bhubaneswar, 751024, Odisha, India.
(2)School of Biotechnology, Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology,
Bhubaneswar, 751024, Odisha, India.
(3)School of Chemical Technology, Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology,
Bhubaneswar, 751024, Odisha, India.
(4)Department of Global Public Health, Karolinska Institutet, 17177, Stockholm,
Sweden.
(5)School of Chemical Technology, Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology,
Bhubaneswar, 751024, Odisha, India; School of Biotechnology, Kalinga Institute of
Industrial Technology, Bhubaneswar, 751024, Odisha, India. Electronic address:
suraj.tripathy@kiitbiotech.ac.in.

Microbial contamination of water is one of the major sources of many diseases
worldwide. Evolution of antibacterial resistance (ABR) alongside the caveats in
most of the water treatment methods causes the severity of the current problem
extremely vexing. This calls for an urgent need to develop new treatment methods 
aiming to reduce the microbial as well as ABR load in the environment. Herein, we
successfully developed a visible light assisted sonophotocatalysis (SPC) using
Fe/ZnO nanoparticles (NPs) for the disinfection of Shigella dysenteriae. A
consortia containing S. dysenteriae and S. flexineri was also completely
disinfected using SPC. Growth conditions of S. dysenteriae like growth phases and
growth temperaturehad different outcomes on the overall efficacy of SPC. Compared
with catalysts such as ZnO and TiO2, Fe/ZnO resulted in better disinfection.
Multi-ROS production, mostly containing h+ and O2· radicals, due to the electron 
displacement in the catalyst and acoustic cavitation was identified as the
factors behind bacterial lethality. The ROS produced was found to interfere with 
the metabolic activities of S. dysenteriae by causing membrane perturbation. We
identified DNA damage inside the cells and the subsequent release of
intracellular components. The compositional changes in the fatty acid makeup of
the cells were altered as a result of SPC and few fatty acid markers indicating
the stress posed by SPC were also identified. Loss of ABR in S. dysenteriae was
also recorded post SPC treatment. Abatement in the biofilm forming ability of the
injured bacterial cells was also recorded, proving the extremity of stress
induced by SPC. Hence, the excellent efficacy of SPC in disinfecting bacteria is 
proposed for tertiary water treatment applications.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2020.109620 
PMID: 32416355 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

