
1. Folia Microbiol (Praha). 2020 Sep 7. doi: 10.1007/s12223-020-00818-0. [Epub ahead
of print]

Antibacterial activity and mechanism of three isomeric terpineols of Cinnamomum
longepaniculatum leaf oil.

Huang J(1)(2), Yang L(1), Zou Y(1)(2), Luo S(1), Wang X(1), Liang Y(1), Du Y(1), 
Feng R(1), Wei Q(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Lab of Aromatic Plant Resources Exploitation and Utilization in Sichuan
Higher Education, Yibin University, Yibin, 644000, People's Republic of China.
(2)College of Food and Biotechnology, Xihua University, Chengdu, 610039, People's
Republic of China.
(3)Key Lab of Aromatic Plant Resources Exploitation and Utilization in Sichuan
Higher Education, Yibin University, Yibin, 644000, People's Republic of China.
weiqin2001-67@163.com.

α-Terpineol, terpinen-4-ol, and δ-terpineol, isomers of terpineol, are among the 
compounds that give Cinnamomum longepaniculatum leaf oil its distinguished
pleasant smell. The objective of this study was to evaluate the antimicrobial
activity of these three isomeric terpineols. The determination of antibacterial
activity was based on the minimum inhibition concentration (MIC) and minimum
bactericide concentration (MBC). Changes in time-kill curve, alkaline phosphatase
(AKP), UV-absorbing material, membrane potential, and scanning electron
microscopy (SEM) were measured to elucidate the possible antimicrobial mechanism.
α-Terpineol, terpinen-4-ol, and δ-terpineol demonstrated good inhibitory effects 
against several gram-negative bacteria, particularly Shigella flexneri. MIC and
MBC of α-terpineol and terpinen-4-ol were similar (0.766 mg/mL and 1.531 mg/mL,
respectively) for S. flexneri, while the MIC and MBC values of δ-terpineol were
0.780 mg/mL and 3.125 mg/mL, respectively. Time-kill curves showed that the
antibacterial activities of the tested compounds were in a
concentration-dependent manner. Release of nucleic acids and proteins along with 
a decrease in membrane potential proved that α-terpineol, terpinen-4-ol, and
δ-terpineol could increase the membrane permeability of Shigella flexneri.
Additionally, the release of AKP suggested that the cell wall was destroyed. SEM 
analysis further confirmed that S. flexneri cell membranes were damaged by
α-terpineol, terpinen-4-ol, and δ-terpineol. Our research suggests that these
three isomeric terpineols have the potential of being used as natural
antibacterial agents by destroying the cell membrane and wall, resulting in cell 
death. However, the specific antibacterial activity differences need further
investigation.

DOI: 10.1007/s12223-020-00818-0 
PMID: 32895862 

