
1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2020 Sep 21;64(10). pii: e01057-20. doi:
10.1128/AAC.01057-20. Print 2020 Sep 21.

Rapid Increase of CTX-M-Producing Shigella sonnei Isolates in Switzerland Due to 
Spread of Common Plasmids and International Clones.

Campos-Madueno EI(1), Bernasconi OJ(1), Moser AI(1), Keller PM(1), Luzzaro F(2), 
Maffioli C(3), Bodmer T(4), Kronenberg A(1)(5), Endimiani A(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Infectious Diseases, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(2)Clinical Microbiology and Virology Unit, A. Manzoni Hospital, Lecco, Italy.
(3)MCL Medizinische Laboratorien, Niederwangen, Switzerland.
(4)labormedizinisches zentrum Dr. Risch, Bern-Liebefeld, Switzerland.
(5)Swiss Centre for Antibiotic Resistance (ANRESIS), Bern, Switzerland.
(6)Institute for Infectious Diseases, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland
andrea.endimiani@ifik.unibe.ch.

The Swiss Centre for Antibiotic Resistance (ANRESIS) has recently noted an
increase of extended-spectrum cephalosporin-resistant (ESC-R) Shigella sonnei
isolates nationwide (3.8% in 2016 versus 37.5% in 2019). To understand this
phenomenon, we analyzed 25 representative isolates (of which 14 were ESC-R)
collected in Switzerland during 2016 to 2019. Whole-genome sequencing was
achieved using both the Illumina and the Nanopore platforms. Both ESC-R and
extended-spectrum cephalosporin-susceptible isolates belonged to sequence type
152 (ST152). The ESC-R isolates carried bla CTX-M-3 in IncI1-pST57 (n = 5), bla
CTX-M-15 in IncFII (F2:A-:B-) (n = 5), bla CTX-M-15 in IncI1-pST16, and bla
CTX-M-27, bla CTX-M-55, or bla CTX-M-134 in other IncFII plasmids (n = 1 each).
Plasmids having the same bla and Inc group exhibited high degrees of genetic
identity to each other but also to plasmids previously reported in other
Enterobacterales Core-genome analysis showed that there were 4 main clusters,
each of which included strains that differed by <58 single nucleotide variants
(SNVs) and that consisted of both bla CTX-M-positive and bla CTX-M-negative
isolates. Moreover, most isolates belonging to the same cluster shared an
identical core-genome sequence type (cgST). For instance, cluster 1 included 4
isolates of cgST113036, of which only 3 harbored the IncI1-pST57 bla
CTX-M-3-positive plasmid. The 25 S. sonnei isolates were also subjected to
phylogenetic comparison with deposited international strains. As a result,
matching isolates (isolates that had the same cgST and that differed by <8 SNVs) 
have been reported in the United Kingdom, the United States, France, and the
Netherlands. Overall, our results suggest that some common S. sonnei clusters can
spread between continents and can be imported into other nations after
international trips. Such clusters include, in part, isolates that do not possess
bla ESBL-harboring plasmids, indicating their tendency to acquire them from other
Enterobacterales.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01057-20 
PMCID: PMC7508577 [Available on 2021-03-21]
PMID: 32718957 

