
1. Acta Crystallogr F Struct Biol Commun. 2020 Sep 1;76(Pt 9):406-413. doi:
10.1107/S2053230X20010067. Epub 2020 Aug 19.

Characterization and structure of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase type 1
from Escherichia coli.

Zhang L(1), Liu MR(1), Yao YC(2), Bostrom IK(2), Wang YD(1), Chen AQ(1), Li
JX(1), Gu SH(1), Ji CN(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Institute of Genetics, School of 
Life Sciences, Fudan University, 2005 Songhu Road, Shanghai 200438, People's
Republic of China.
(2)Division of Cardiology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, 
CA 90095-1679, USA.

Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) is a key enzyme in the
glycolytic pathway that catalyzes the conversion of D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate 
to 1,3-diphosphoglycerate. Here, the full-length GAPDH type 1 from Escherichia
coli (EcGAPDH1) was cloned and overexpressed, and the protein was purified.
Biochemical analyses found that the optimum reaction temperature and pH of
EcGAPDH1 were 55°C and 10.0, respectively. The protein has a certain amount of
thermostability. Crystals of EcGAPDH1 were obtained using the sitting-drop
vapor-diffusion technique and X-ray diffraction data were collected to 1.88 Å
resolution. Characterization of the crystals showed that they belonged to space
group P41212, with unit-cell parameters a = b = 89.651, c = 341.007 Å, α = β = γ 
= 90°. The structure of EcGAPDH1 contains four subunits, each of which includes
an N-terminal NAD+-binding domain and a C-terminal catalytic domain. Analysis of 
the NAD+-bound form showed some differences between the structures of EcGAPDH1
and human GAPDH. As EcGAPDH1 shares 100% identity with GAPDH from Shigella
sonnei, its structure may help in finding a drug for the treatment of
shigellosis.

DOI: 10.1107/S2053230X20010067 
PMCID: PMC7470045 [Available on 2022-09-01]
PMID: 32880588 

