
1. J Clin Microbiol. 2020 Mar 25;58(4). pii: e01692-19. doi: 10.1128/JCM.01692-19.
Print 2020 Mar 25.

Persistent Transmission of Shigellosis in England Is Associated with a Recently
Emerged Multidrug-Resistant Strain of Shigella sonnei.

Bardsley M(1), Jenkins C(2), Mitchell HD(3), Mikhail AFW(1), Baker KS(4), Foster 
K(1), Hughes G(1), Dallman TJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Infection Service, Public Health England, London, United Kingdom.
(2)National Infection Service, Public Health England, London, United Kingdom
claire.jenkins1@phe.gov.uk.
(3)Institute for Global Health, University College London, London, United
Kingdom.
(4)Institute for Integrative Biology, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United 
Kingdom.

Whole-genome sequencing has enhanced surveillance and facilitated detailed
monitoring of the transmission of Shigella species in England. We undertook an
epidemiological and phylogenetic analysis of isolates from all cases of
shigellosis referred to Public Health England between 2015 and 2018 to explore
recent strain characteristics and the transmission dynamics of Shigella species. 
Of the 4,950 confirmed cases of shigellosis identified during this period, the
highest proportion of isolates was Shigella sonnei (54.4%), followed by S.
flexneri (39.2%), S. boydii (4.1%), and S. dysenteriae (2.2%). Most cases were
adults (82.9%) and male (59.5%), and 34.9% cases reported recent travel outside
the United Kingdom. Throughout the study period, diagnoses of S. flexneri and S. 
sonnei infections were most common in men with no history of recent travel
abroad. The species prevalence was not static, with cases of S. flexneri
infection in men decreasing between 2015 and 2016 and the number of cases of S.
sonnei infection increasing from 2017. Phylogenetic analysis showed this recent
increase in S. sonnei infections was attributed to a novel clade that emerged
from a Central Asia sublineage exhibiting resistance to ciprofloxacin and
azithromycin. Despite changes in species prevalence, diagnoses of Shigella
infections in England are persistently most common in adult males without a
reported travel history, consistent with sexual transmission among men who have
sex with men. The trend toward increasing rates of ciprofloxacin resistance in S.
sonnei, in addition to plasmid-mediated azithromycin resistance, is of
significant public health concern with respect to the transmission of
multidrug-resistant gastrointestinal pathogens and the risk of treatment
failures.

Â© Crown copyright 2020.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.01692-19 
PMCID: PMC7098776
PMID: 31969425 

