
1. Chem Sci. 2019 Sep 23;10(43):9941-9948. doi: 10.1039/c9sc03717a. eCollection 2019
Nov 21.

Discovery of novel [FeFe]-hydrogenases for biocatalytic H2-production.

Land H(1), Ceccaldi P(1), Mészáros LS(1), Lorenzi M(1), Redman HJ(1), Senger
M(2), Stripp ST(2), Berggren G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biomimetics , Department of Chemistry - Ångström Laboratory ,
Uppsala University , Box 523 , Uppsala , SE-75120 , Sweden . Email:
Gustav.Berggren@kemi.uu.se.
(2)Institute of Experimental Physics, Experimental Molecular Biophysics , Freie
Universität Berlin , Arnimallee 14 , Berlin , DE-14195 , Germany.

A new screening method for [FeFe]-hydrogenases is described, circumventing the
need for specialized expression conditions as well as protein purification for
initial characterization. [FeFe]-hydrogenases catalyze the formation and
oxidation of molecular hydrogen at rates exceeding 103 s-1, making them highly
promising for biotechnological applications. However, the discovery of novel
[FeFe]-hydrogenases is slow due to their oxygen sensitivity and dependency on a
structurally unique cofactor, complicating protein expression and purification.
Consequently, only a very limited number have been characterized, hampering their
implementation. With the purpose of increasing the throughput of
[FeFe]-hydrogenase discovery, we have developed a screening method that allows
for rapid identification of novel [FeFe]-hydrogenases as well as their
characterization with regards to activity (activity assays and protein film
electrochemistry) and spectroscopic properties (electron paramagnetic resonance
and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy). The method is based on in vivo
artificial maturation of [FeFe]-hydrogenases in Escherichia coli and all
procedures are performed on either whole cells or non-purified cell lysates,
thereby circumventing extensive protein purification. The screening was applied
on eight putative [FeFe]-hydrogenases originating from different structural
sub-classes and resulted in the discovery of two new active [FeFe]-hydrogenases. 
The [FeFe]-hydrogenase from Solobacterium moorei shows high H2-gas production
activity, while the enzyme from Thermoanaerobacter mathranii represents a
hitherto uncharacterized [FeFe]-hydrogenase sub-class. This latter enzyme is a
putative sensory hydrogenase and our in vivo spectroscopy study reveals distinct 
differences compared to the well established H2 producing HydA1 hydrogenase from 
Chlamydomonas reinhardtii.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2019.

DOI: 10.1039/c9sc03717a 
PMCID: PMC6984386
PMID: 32055351 

