
1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Jun 20;722:137171. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.137171. 
Epub 2020 Feb 24.

Characterization of hexaconazole-degrading strain Sphingobacterium multivorum and
analysis of transcriptome for biodegradation mechanism.

An X(1), Tian C(1), Xu J(2), Dong F(1), Liu X(1), Wu X(1), Zheng Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, Institute
of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, Institute
of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, China.
Electronic address: junxu1@ippcaas.cn.

Hexaconazole is a triazole fungicide, which is stable and difficult to degrade in
the environment. The existence of hexaconazole could pose a certain risk to the
environment and the health of living organisms. In this study, an efficient
degradation strain B-3 (Sphingobacterium multivorum) of hexaconazole was isolated
from sewage, activated sludge, and soil. The degradation efficiency of
hexaconazole can reach 85.6% in 6 days at a temperature of 32.5 °C, pH of 6.31,
initial inoculum of 0.4 g L-1 and initial concentration of hexaconazole of
50 mg L-1. During degradation, three metabolites (M1: 2-(2,
4-dichlorophenyl)-1-(1H-1, 2, 4-triazol-1-yl) hexane-2, 5-diol; M2: 2-(2,
4-dichlorophenyl) hexane-1, 2-diol; M3: 1H-1, 2, 4-triazole) were identified.
Moreover, 45.6% hexaconazole can be degraded in 60 days in natural soil
containing B-3. The results of the transcriptome sequencing indicated the
presence of 864 differential genes, in which aldehyde dehydrogenase,
monooxygenase, RND transporters, and ABC transporters were up-regulated. The
generation of 2-(2, 4-dichlorophenyl)-1-(1H-1, 2, 4-triazol-1-yl) hexane-2,
5-diol may be due to the participation of monooxygenase.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.137171 
PMID: 32213434  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors
have approved this version of the article and no conflict of interest exists in
the submission of this manuscript. This paper is our original unpublished work
and neither the entire paper nor any part of its content has been published or
has been accepted elsewhere.

