
1. Parasitol Res. 2020 Sep 22. doi: 10.1007/s00436-020-06876-0. [Epub ahead of
print]

Endoparasites infecting exotic captive amphibian pet and zoo animals (Anura,
Caudata) in Germany.

Hallinger MJ(1)(2), Taubert A(3), Hermosilla C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Parasitology, Justus Liebig University Giessen, Schubertstr. 81, 
Biomedical Research Centre Seltersberg, 35392, Giessen, Germany.
malekhallinger@web.de.
(2)exomed GmbH, Schönhauser Str. 62, 13127, Berlin, Germany.
malekhallinger@web.de.
(3)Institute of Parasitology, Justus Liebig University Giessen, Schubertstr. 81, 
Biomedical Research Centre Seltersberg, 35392, Giessen, Germany.

Alongside exotic reptiles, amphibians, such as toads, frogs, salamanders, and
newts, are nowadays considered popular pets worldwide. As reported for other
exotic pet animals, amphibians are known to harbor numerous gastrointestinal
parasites. Nonetheless, very little data are available on captive amphibian
parasitic diseases. In this study, we applied direct saline fecal smears (DSFS)
to examine in total 161 stool samples from 41 different amphibian species
belonging to the orders Anura and Caudata. In addition, carbolfuchsin-smear (CFS)
staining (n = 74 samples) was used to detect amphibian Cryptosporidium oocysts.
Also, complete dissections of deceased amphibians (n = 107) were performed to
specify parasite infections and to address parasite-associated pathogenicity.
Overall, examined amphibian fecal samples contained 12 different parasite taxa.
The order Rhabditida with the species Rhabdias spp. and Strongyloides spp. were
the most prevalent nematode species (19.3%), followed by flagellated protozoans
(8.7%), Amphibiocapillaria spp./Neocapillaria spp. (7.5%), Oswaldocruzia spp.
(4.3%), Blastocystis spp. (3.1%), Cosmocerca spp. (3.1%), oxyurids
(Pharyngonoidae) (3.1%), spirurids (1.2%), un-sporulated coccidian oocysts
(0.6%), Tritrichomonas spp. (0.6%), Karotomorpha spp. (0.6%), and Cryptosporidium
spp. (0.6%). One CFS-stained fecal sample (1.4%) was positive for Cryptosporidium
oocysts. Within dissected amphibians, 31 (48.4%) of the anurans and 11 (26.2%) of
the salamanders were infected with gastrointestinal parasites. One cutaneous
Pseudocapillaroides xenopi infection was diagnosed in an adult African clawed
frog (Xenopus laevis). Etiologically, 17 (15.9%) of them died due to severe
parasitic and/or bacterial infections (e.g., Chryseobacterium indologenes,
Citrobacter freudii, Sphingobacterium multivorum, Klebsiella pneumoniae). High
prevalence and pathological findings of several clinical amphibian parasitoses
call for more detailed investigation on gastrointestinal parasite-derived
molecular mechanisms associated with detrimental lesions or even death.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-020-06876-0 
PMID: 32960371 

