
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Mar 3;11:248. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00248. eCollection
2020.

Comparative Genome Analysis of the Lignocellulose Degrading Bacteria Citrobacter 
freundii so4 and Sphingobacterium multivorum w15.

Cortes-Tolalpa L(1), Wang Y(1), Salles JF(1), van Elsas JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cluster of Microbial Ecology, Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life
Sciences, University of Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.

Two bacterial strains, denoted so4 and w15, isolated from wheat straw
(WS)-degrading microbial consortia, were found to grow synergistically in media
containing WS as the single carbon and energy source. They were identified as
Citrobacter freundii so4 and Sphingobacterium multivorum w15 based on 16S rRNA
gene sequencing and comparison to the respective C. freundii and S. multivorum
type strains. In order to identify the mechanisms driving the synergistic
interactions, we analyzed the draft genomes of the two strains and further
characterized their metabolic potential. The latter analyses revealed that the
strains had largely complementary substrate utilization patterns, with only 22
out of 190 compounds shared. The analyses further indicated C. freundii so4 to
primarily consume amino acids and simple sugars, with laminarin as a key
exception. In contrast, S. multivorum w15 showed ample capacity to transform
complex polysaccharides, including intermediates of starch degradation. Sequence 
analyses revealed C. freundii so4 to have a genome of 4,883,214 bp, with a G + C 
content of 52.5%, 4,554 protein-encoding genes and 86 RNA genes. S. multivorum
w15 has a genome of 6,678,278 bp, with a G + C content of 39.7%, 5,999
protein-encoding genes and 76 RNA genes. Genes for motility apparatuses
(flagella, chemotaxis) were present in the genome of C. freundii so4, but absent 
from that of S. multivorum w15. In the genome of S. multivorum w15, 348 genes had
regions matching CAZy family enzymes and/or carbohydrate-binding modules (CBMs), 
with 193 glycosyl hydrolase (GH) and 50 CBM domains. Remarkably, 22 domains
matched enzymes of glycoside hydrolase family GH43, suggesting a strong
investment in the degradation of arabinoxylan. In contrast, 130 CAZy family genes
were found in C. freundii so4, with 61 GH and 12 CBM domains identified.
Collectively, our results, based on both metabolic potential and genome analyses,
revealed the two strains to harbor complementary catabolic armories, with S.
multivorum w15 primarily attacking the WS hemicellulose and C. freundii so4 the
cellobiose derived from cellulose, next to emerging oligo- or monosaccharides.
Finally, C. freundii so4 may secrete secondary metabolites that S. multivorum w15
can consume, and detoxify the system by reducing the levels of (toxic)
by-products.

Copyright Â© 2020 Cortes-Tolalpa, Wang, Salles and van Elsas.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00248 
PMCID: PMC7065263
PMID: 32194522 

