
1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Jul 1;724:138124. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.138124.
Epub 2020 Mar 25.

Bioimmobilization of toxic metals by precipitation of carbonates using
Sporosarcina luteola: An in vitro study and application to sulfide-bearing
tailings.

Cuaxinque-Flores G(1), Aguirre-Noyola JL(2), Hernández-Flores G(3),
Martínez-Romero E(2), Romero-Ramírez Y(4), Talavera-Mendoza O(5).

Author information: 
(1)Maestría en Recursos Naturales y Ecología, Facultad de Ecología Marina,
Universidad Autónoma de Guerrero, Gran vía tropical 20, Fraccionamiento Las
playas, Acapulco de Juárez, Guerrero, Mexico.
(2)Programa de Ecología Genómica, Centro de Ciencias Genómicas, Universidad
Nacional Autónoma de México, Av. Universidad s/n, Chamilpa, 62210 Cuernavaca,
Morelos, Mexico.
(3)CONACyT-Universidad Autónoma de Guerrero, Escuela Superior de Ciencias de la
Tierra, Ex hacienda San Juan Bautista s/n, Taxco el Viejo, Guerrero C.P. 40323,
Mexico.
(4)Facultad de Ciencias Químico Biológicas, Universidad Autónoma de Guerrero, Av 
Lázaro Cárdenas, Ciudad Universitaria, 39070 Chilpancingo, Guerrero, Mexico.
(5)Maestría en Recursos Naturales y Ecología, Facultad de Ecología Marina,
Universidad Autónoma de Guerrero, Gran vía tropical 20, Fraccionamiento Las
playas, Acapulco de Juárez, Guerrero, Mexico; Escuela Superior de Ciencias de la 
Tierra, Universidad Autónoma de Guerrero, Ex-hacienda San Juan Bautista s/n, C.P.
40323 Taxco el Viejo, Guerrero, Mexico. Electronic address:
otalavera.uagro@gmail.com.

Metal release from mining wastes is a major environmental problem affecting
ecosystems that requires effective, low-cost strategies for prevention and
reclamation. The capacity of two strains (UB3 and UB5) of Sporosarcina luteola
was investigated to induce the sequestration of metals by precipitation of
carbonates in vitro and under microcosm conditions. These strains carry the ureC 
gene and have high urease activity. Also, they are highly resistant to metals and
have the capacity for producing metallophores and arsenophores. SEM, EDX and XRD 
reveal that the two strains induced precipitation of calcite, vaterite and
magnesian calcite as well as several (M2+)CO3 such as hydromagnesite (Mg2+),
rhodochrosite (Mn2+), cerussite (Pb2+), otavite (Cd2+), strontianite (Sr2+),
witherite (Ba2+) and hydrozincite (Zn2+) in vitro. Inoculation of the mixed
culture of UB3+UB5 in tailings increased the pH and induced the precipitation of 
vaterite, calcite and smithsonite enhancing biocementation and reducing pore size
and permeability slowing down the oxidation of residual sulfides. Results further
demonstrated that the strains of S. luteola immobilize bioavailable toxic
elements through the precipitation and coprecipitation of thermodynamically
stable (M2+)CO3, Fe-Mn oxyhydroxides and organic chelates.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.138124 
PMID: 32268286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

