
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jul 23;8(8). pii: E1105. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8081105.

Staphylococcus saccharolyticus: An Overlooked Human Skin Colonizer.

Ahle CM(1)(2), Stødkilde K(3), Afshar M(3), Poehlein A(4), Ogilvie LA(5),
Söderquist B(6), Hüpeden J(1), Brüggemann H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Beiersdorf AG, Research & Development, Front End Innovation, 20245 Hamburg,
Germany.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Biotechnology, University of Hamburg, 22609
Hamburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Biomedicine, Aarhus University, 8000 Aarhus, Denmark.
(4)Department of Genomic and Applied Microbiology, Institute of Microbiology and 
Genetics, University of Göttingen, 37073 Göttingen, Germany.
(5)Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics, 14195 Berlin, Germany.
(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Clinical Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine 
and Health, Örebro University, S-701 82 Örebro, Sweden.

Coagulase-negative staphylococcal species constitute an important part of the
human skin microbiota. In particular, facultative anaerobic species such as
Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus capitis can be found on the skin of
virtually every human being. Here, we applied a culture-independent amplicon
sequencing approach to identify staphylococcal species on the skin of healthy
human individuals. While S. epidermidis and S. capitis were found as primary
residents of back skin, surprisingly, the third most abundant member was
Staphylococcus saccharolyticus, a relatively unstudied species. A search of skin 
metagenomic datasets detected sequences identical to the genome of S.
saccharolyticus in diverse skin sites, including the back, forehead, and elbow
pit. Although described as a slow-growing anaerobic species, a re-evaluation of
its growth behavior showed that S. saccharolyticus can grow under oxic
conditions, and, in particular, in a CO2-rich atmosphere. We argue here that S.
saccharolyticus was largely overlooked in previous culture-dependent and
-independent studies, due to its requirement for fastidious growth conditions and
the lack of reference genome sequences, respectively. Future studies are needed
to unravel the microbiology and host-interacting properties of S. saccharolyticus
and its role as a prevalent skin colonizer.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8081105 
PMCID: PMC7465461
PMID: 32718033 

