
1. Int J Phytoremediation. 2020 Jul 9:1-9. doi: 10.1080/15226514.2020.1786795. [Epub
ahead of print]

Transgenic tobacco plants overexpressing a cold-adaptive nitroreductase gene
exhibited enhanced 2,4-dinitrotoluene detoxification rate at low temperature.

Kayıhan DS(1), Kayıhan C(2), Özden Çiftçi Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Gebze Technical University,
Kocaeli, Turkey.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Başkent University, Ankara,
Turkey.

Plants encounter many environmental factors such as low and high temperatures
during phytoremediation processes. In this study, our aim was to produce the
transgenic tobacco plants by using a newly characterized bacterial
nitroreductase, Ntr, which was active at a broad range temperature in order to
detoxify 2,4-dinitrotoluene (2,4-DNT) at lower temperature. The presence of Ntr
and its heterologous expression was verified in T1 transgenic plants and their
growing ability were determined under toxic amount of 2,4-DNT (35 µM). Fresh
weight and dry weight of transgenic plants were significantly higher than wild
type (WT) under toxic 2,4-DNT at 22 °C, indicating higher growth capacity of the 
transgenics. Transgenic plants also showed a higher tolerance than WT when
exposed to 2,4-DNT at 15 °C. Moreover, transformation rate of 2,4-DNT was
gradually decreased through decreasing temperatures in WT media, however, it was 
increased through decreasing temperatures in transgenic plant TR3-25 media and it
had the highest transformation rate (54%) of 2,4-DNT at 4 °C. Correlatively,
2,4-DNT treatment at 4 °C led to a significant decrease in H2O2 level in
transgenic plants. Thus, transgenic plants overexpressing nitroreductase might
have an important advantage for phytoremediation of toxic nitroaromatic compounds
in field applications at low temperatures.

DOI: 10.1080/15226514.2020.1786795 
PMID: 32643388 

