
1. J Med Microbiol. 2020 Aug;69(8):1079-1088. doi: 10.1099/jmm.0.001234. Epub 2020
Jul 27.

The epidemiology and molecular characteristics of linezolid-resistant
Staphylococcus capitis in Huashan Hospital, Shanghai.

Ding L(1)(2), Li P(1)(2), Yang Y(1)(2), Lin D(1)(2), Xu X(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Clinical Pharmacology of Antibiotics, Ministry of Health,
Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(2)Institute of Antibiotics, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai,
People's Republic of China.

Introduction. Linezolid-resistant (LZR) Staphylococcus capitis has recently
emerged in our hospital, and its potential resistance mechanisms are still not
clear.Aim. This study aimed to investigate the epidemiology, clinical and genetic
characteristics, resistance mechanisms and biofilm formation capacity of LZR S.
capitis isolated from patients at Huashan Hospital, Shanghai, PR China between
2012 and 2018.Methodology. Strains were subjected to antimicrobial susceptibility
testing (AST) with antibiotics using the broth microdilution method according to 
the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) guidelines. The presence
of cfr, optrA and poxtA, as well as mutations in the 23S ribosomal (r)RNA and
ribosomal proteins, was investigated using PCR and sequencing techniques. The
genetic relationship between isolates was analysed using pulsed-field gel
electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole-genome sequencing (WGS). Biofilm biomasses were 
detected by using crystal violet staining.Results. Twenty-one LZR S. capitis
strains displayed MICs of 32-512 μg ml-1. All LZR strains showed G2576T and
C2104T mutations in the 23S rRNA V region. Besides G2576T and C2104T, no base
mutations were detected in the V region. The cfr was detected in 12 strains,
while optrA and poxtA were not amplified in 21 S. capitis strains. PFGE showed
that the LZR S. capitis strains belonged to a single clone. The phylogenetic tree
showed that 20 LZR S. capitis strains were highly similar to LNZR-1, isolated
from Harbin (located in the north of China) in 2013, which showed resistance to
linezolid.Conclusions. In this research, cfr-negative strains displayed linezolid
MICs of 32 μg ml-1. In comparison, cfr-positive strains exhibited linezolid MICs 
of 128-512 μg ml-1, indicating that high levels of linezolid resistance appear to
be related to the presence of cfr. The outbreak of LZR S. capitis in our hospital
needs to be monitored closely.

DOI: 10.1099/jmm.0.001234 
PMID: 32729813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

