
1. Microorganisms. 2019 Dec 24;8(1). pii: E42. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8010042.

Silencing of Phytopathogen Communication by the Halotolerant PGPR Staphylococcus 
equorum Strain EN21.

Vega C(1)(2), Rodríguez M(1)(2), Llamas I(1)(2), Béjar V(1)(2), Sampedro I(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Granada, 18071 
Granada, Spain.
(2)Institute of Biotechnology, Biomedical Research Center (CIBM), University of
Granada, 18100 Granada, Spain.

Increasing world food demand together with soil erosion and indiscriminate use of
chemical fertilization highlight the need to adopt sustainable crop production
strategies. In this context, a combination of plant growth-promoting
rhizobacteria (PGPR) and pathogen management represents a sustainable and
efficient alternative. Though little studied, halophilic and halotolerant PGPR
could be a beneficial plant growth promotion strategy for saline and non-saline
soils. The virulence of many bacterial phytopathogens is regulated by quorum
sensing (QS) systems. Quorum quenching (QQ) involves the enzymatic degradation of
phytopathogen-generated signal molecules, mainly N-acyl homoserine lactones
(AHLs). In this study, we investigate plant growth-promoting (PGP) activity and
the capacity of the halotolerant bacterium Staphylococcus equorum strain EN21 to 
attenuate phytopathogens virulence through QQ. We used biopriming and in vivo
tomato plant experiments to analyse the PGP activity of strain EN21. AHL
inactivation was observed to reduce Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato infections in
tomato and Arabidopsis plants. Our study of Dickeya solani, Pectobacterium
carotovorum subsp. carotovorum and Erwinia amylovora bacteria in potato tubers,
carrots and pears, respectively, also demonstrated the effectiveness of QS
interruption by EN21. Overall, this study highlights the potential of strain S.
equorum EN21 in plant growth promotion and QQ-driven bacterial phytopathogen
biocontrol.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8010042 
PMCID: PMC7022284
PMID: 31878301 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to
publish the results.

