
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Sep;77(9):2333-2344. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02095-z. Epub
2020 Jun 30.

The Faecal Microbiome of Building-Dwelling Insectivorous Bats (Myotis myotis and 
Rhinolophus hipposideros) also Contains Antibiotic-Resistant Bacterial
Representatives.

Gerbáčová K(1), Maliničová L(1), Kisková J(1), Maslišová V(1), Uhrin M(2),
Pristaš P(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Institute of Biology and Ecology, Faculty of
Science, Pavol Jozef Šafárik University in Košice, Šrobárova 2, 04154, Košice,
Slovakia.
(2)Department of Zoology, Institute of Biology and Ecology, Faculty of Science,
Pavol Jozef Šafárik University in Košice, Šrobárova 2, 04154, Košice, Slovakia.
marcel.uhrin@gmail.com.
(3)Institute of Animal Physiology, Centre of Biosciences, Slovak Academy of
Sciences, Šoltésovej 4-6, 04001, Košice, Slovakia.

The bacteriome of bat faeces and bat guano is still not well known, despite the
increasing knowledge of it as a potential source of pathogenic and/or
antibiotic-resistant species. In this study, the faecal microbiome composition of
two building-dwelling insectivorous bat species (Myotis myotis and Rhinolophus
hipposideros) was analysed using cultivation-based and non-cultivation-based
approaches. The cultivation analyses indicate the dominance of Gram-positive
bacteria, represented by the genera Enterococcus, Lactococcus and Lactobacillus. 
Non-cultivation analysis based on 16S rRNA DGGE assays provided a different
pattern, with the genus Rahnella found to predominate in the faecal microbiome.
The analyses showed bat species to be the most important factor influencing the
structure of the guano-associated microbial population. The presence of several
possible human pathogens (Hafnia alvei, Serratia fonticola, S. liquefaciens) and 
antibiotic-resistant bacteria (e.g. vancomycin resistant Staphylococcus
nepalensis) was detected in faeces samples, indicating possible human health
risks associated with bat guano. Although the bat-human transmission of infection
caused by pathogenic bacteria has not been reliably confirmed to date, this
possibility should not be underestimated. Given the very important ecosystem
services of bats, particular those studied herein, it is time to think about
appropriate management of bat populations inhabiting man-made buildings and
potential conflicts with humans.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02095-z 
PMID: 32607823 

