
1. 3 Biotech. 2020 May;10(5):232. doi: 10.1007/s13205-020-02231-3. Epub 2020 May 6.

The draft genome of Staphylococcus warneri TRPF4, a bacteriocin producer with
potent activity against the causative agent of Legionnaires' Disease.

Freitas FS(1), Vidigal PMP(2), Siqueira TP(1), de Barros M(3), Tótola MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)1Departamento de Microbiologia, Laboratório de Biotecnologia e Biodiversidade 
Para o Meio Ambiente, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Peter Henry Rolfs Avenue
w/n, Viçosa, MG Brazil.
(2)2Núcleo de Análise de Biomoléculas, Centro de Ciências Biológicas,
Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Peter Henry Rolfs Avenue w/n, Viçosa, MG Brazil.
(3)3Departamento de Veterinária, Laboratório de Doenças Bacterianas, Universidade
Federal de Viçosa, Peter Henry Rolfs Avenue w/n, Viçosa, MG Brazil.

In this work, we present the draft genome sequence of Staphylococcus warneri
strain TRPF4 consisting of 2,634,550 bp with a G + C content of 32.4%. The genome
sequence includes 2466 protein-coding genes, 11 rRNAs and 62 tRNAs, in 33
contigs. Applying the Rapid Annotation using Subsystem Technology (RAST) a total 
of 1322 protein-coding genes were assigned to 393 subsystems. Also, a set of 1286
protein-coding genes with designated functions were assigned to 21 categories in 
the Cluster of Orthologous Groups (COG) database. Further analysis of BAGEL3
software demonstrated that the TRPF4 genome contains two gene clusters
responsible for the synthesis of three bacteriocins, one warnericin RK and two
delta-lysins. Besides, a novel delta-lysin of 3.48 kDa was identified for the
first time. The three predicted bacteriocins were chemically synthesized and
screened for the antimicrobial activity against a range of pathogens, exhibiting 
a potent and specific antimicrobial activity counter to L. pneumophila, with
minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) ranging from 1.9 to 7.8 µg mL-1. These
results indicate that the strain TRPF4 can produce bacteriocins with
anti-Legionella activity. This was verified by the extracting the bacteriocins
from the fermentation broth and testing against L. pneumophila. Additionally, the
strain TRPF4 exhibited no cytotoxicity in mammalian cell lines. In summary, the
genomic sequences and in vitro assays demonstrated the potential application of
bacteriocins from S. warneri TRPF4 as a scaffold for further development of drugs
against L. pneumophila, the causative agent of Legionnaires' Disease.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-020-02231-3 
PMCID: PMC7200953 [Available on 2021-05-01]
PMID: 32399382 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that they
have no conflict of interest.

