
1. Int Microbiol. 2020 Aug;23(3):367-380. doi: 10.1007/s10123-019-00109-w. Epub 2019
Dec 11.

Integrated selection and identification of bacteria from polluted sites for
biodegradation of lipids.

Teixeira PD(1)(2), Silva VS(3), Tenreiro R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Ciências, Biosystems & Integrative Sciences Institute (BioISI),
Campus da FCUL, Universidade de Lisboa, Campo Grande, 1749-016, Lisbon, Portugal.
pteixeira@biotask.pt.
(2)BioTask, Biotecnologia Lda, Av. Jorge MV Pereira, Bloco 4D, Paúl, 2560-232,
Torres Vedras, Portugal. pteixeira@biotask.pt.
(3)BioTask, Biotecnologia Lda, Av. Jorge MV Pereira, Bloco 4D, Paúl, 2560-232,
Torres Vedras, Portugal.
(4)Faculdade de Ciências, Biosystems & Integrative Sciences Institute (BioISI),
Campus da FCUL, Universidade de Lisboa, Campo Grande, 1749-016, Lisbon, Portugal.

Wastewater treatment plants face major social concern towards removal of
problematic pollutants such as fat oils and grease (FOG). In this context, the
main objective of the present work was to select natural bacterial isolates from 
different polluted sites and evaluate them comparatively to isolates from
commercial products, for improved bioremediation strategies and bioaugmentation. 
In total, 196 isolates were analysed for genomic diversity by two
PCR-fingerprinting methods and screened for biodegradation potential with
pollutants as sole carbon source. The net area under curve (NAUC) was used for
preliminary evaluation of growth ability in M9 medium supplemented with oleic
acid and triolein. A principal component analysis of all NAUC data showed that
natural isolates presented higher overall biodegradation ability and enabled the 
selection of 11 natural isolates for lipid degradation assays. Selected isolates 
were identified by 16S rRNA gene sequencing as members of genera with previously 
described degradative strains, namely, Acinetobacter (1), Aeromonas (2), Bacillus
(1), Pseudomonas (1) and Staphylococcus (6). Best biodegradation results in
7-days assay of FOG content removal were 37.9% for oleic acid and 19.1% for
triolein by an Aeromonas sp. isolate and a Staphylococcus cohnii isolate,
respectively. A respirometry approach confirmed their higher oxygen uptake rates,
although longer adaptation phases where required by the Aeromonas sp. isolate.
Consequently, these isolates showed great potential for future bioaugmentation
products, to promote FOG degradation, for both in situ and ex situ approaches.

DOI: 10.1007/s10123-019-00109-w 
PMID: 31828447 

