
1. Food Res Int. 2020 Oct;136:109441. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109441. Epub 2020 
Jun 21.

The potential of bacterial cultures to degrade the mutagen
2-methyl-1,4-dinitro-pyrrole in a processed meat model.

Motta GE(1), Molognoni L(2), Daguer H(3), Angonese M(1), da Silva Correa Lemos
AL(4), Dafre AL(5), De Dea Lindner J(6).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina (UFSC), Departamento de Ciência e
Tecnologia de Alimentos, Florianópolis, SC 88034-001, Brazil.
(2)Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina (UFSC), Departamento de Ciência e
Tecnologia de Alimentos, Florianópolis, SC 88034-001, Brazil; Ministério da
Agricultura, Pecuária e Abastecimento, Laboratório Federal de Defesa Agropecuária
(SLAV/SC/LANAGRO/RS), São José, SC 88102-600, Brazil; Instituto Catarinense de
Sanidade Agropecuária (ICASA), Florianópolis, SC 88034-001, Brazil.
(3)Ministério da Agricultura, Pecuária e Abastecimento, Laboratório Federal de
Defesa Agropecuária (SLAV/SC/LANAGRO/RS), São José, SC 88102-600, Brazil.
(4)Secretaria da Agricultura e do Abastecimento do Estado de São Paulo, Instituto
de Tecnologia de Alimentos (ITAL), Centro de Tecnologia de Carnes, Campinas, SP
13073-001, Brazil.
(5)UFSC, Departamento de Bioquímica, Florianópolis, SC 88034-001, Brazil.
(6)Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina (UFSC), Departamento de Ciência e
Tecnologia de Alimentos, Florianópolis, SC 88034-001, Brazil. Electronic address:
juliano.lindner@ufsc.br.

Processed meats are classified by the International Agency for Research on Cancer
as category 1 because their consumption increase the incidence of colorectal and 
stomach cancers. Meat processing widely employs nitrite and sorbate as
preservatives. When these preservatives are concomitantly used in non-compliant
processes, they may react and produce the mutagen 2-methyl-1,4-dinitro-pyrrole
(DNMP). This study aimed to evaluate the ability of different bacteria isolated
from food matrices to biodegrade DNMP in in vitro reactions and in a processed
meat model. A possible mechanism of biodegradation was also tested. In vitro
experiments were performed in two steps. In the first one, only one strain out of
13 different species did not interact with DNMP. In the following step, an
empirical conversion factor was calculated to assess the conversion of DNMP to
4-amino-2-methyl-1-nitro-pyrrole by the strains. The most efficient strains were 
Staphylococcus xylosus LYOCARNI SXH-01, Lactobacillus fermentum LB-UFSC 0017, and
Lactobacillus casei LB-UFSC 0019, which yielded conversion factors of 0.62, 0.60,
and 0.43, respectively. Thus, such strains were individually added to the
processed meat model and completely degraded the DNMP. Moreover, S. xylosus
degraded DNMP in less than 30 min. The enzymatic mechanism was evaluated using
its cell-free extract. It showed that, in the aerobic system, reduction rates
were 30.321 and 22.411 nmol/mg of protein/min using NADH and NADPH, respectively.
A DNMP reductase was assigned to the extract and a potential presence of an
oxygen insensitive nitroreductase type I B was considered. Thus, biotechnological
processes may be an efficient strategy to eliminate the DNMP from meat products
and to increase food safety.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109441 
PMID: 32846544 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

