
1. Microbiol Res. 2020 Sep;238:126503. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126503. Epub 2020 
May 16.

Endophytes from Gnetum gnemon L. can protect seedlings against the infection of
phytopathogenic bacterium Ralstonia solanacearum as well as promote plant growth 
in tomato.

Agarwal H(1), Dowarah B(1), Baruah PM(1), Bordoloi KS(1), Krishnatreya DB(1),
Agarwala N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Gauhati University, Gopinath Bordoloi Nagar, Jalukbari, 
Assam, 781014, India.
(2)Department of Botany, Gauhati University, Gopinath Bordoloi Nagar, Jalukbari, 
Assam, 781014, India. Electronic address: niraj_botany@gauhati.ac.in.

Endophytes are beneficial plant microbes which help the plants by producing
various plant growth promoting substances and also by acting as biocontrol agents
against various plant pathogens. In the present study, evaluation of endophytic
bacteria isolated from Gnetum gnemon, an ethnomedicinal plant was carried out for
their plant growth promoting (PGP) activity and antagonistic potential against
bacterial wilt pathogen Ralstonia solanacearum. Initially a total of 40
endophytic bacteria were isolated which were clustered into 13 groups based on
RFLP and BOX-PCR fingerprinting. These 13 representative isolates belonged to
different genera of Bacillus (9), Solibacillus (1), Staphylococcus (2) and
Caballeronia (1). Among them, six isolates were positive for production of IAA,
the value of which ranged from 11.16 to 27.63 μg mL-1. Phosphate solubilisation
in the range of 106.4 to -212.7 μg mL-1 was shown by three isolates. Eight
isolates producedammonia, the value of which ranged from 1.3 to 6.1 μmol mL-1.
All tested isolates were positive for siderophore production. For extracellular
enzyme production, 7 isolates were positive for protease, 8 for cellulase and 10 
for amylase production. The isolates were also tested for their antagonistic
activity against R. solanacearum in vitro and in planta assay using tomato
seedlings. Staphylococcus warneri GL1 showed the highest biocontrol efficacy of
77.67 % followed by Bacillus velezensis GL3 i.e. 70.1 %. R. solanacearum
antagonistic isolates were analysed for the presence of antimicrobial peptide
biosynthesis genes bmyB, srfAA, fenD and ituC. All the antagonistic isolates
showed the presence of all four genes, except the isolate Bacillus velezensis
GMC2, where the gene for fengycin synthetase (fenD) was absent. Based on in vitro
PGP traits, three isolates Bacillus velezensis GL3, Bacillus atrophaeus GMC1 and 
Bacillus megaterium GS2 were selected, these three endophytic bacteria
individually and their consortia were tested for in planta PGP activities in
tomato plants. Application of Bacillus velezensis GL3 alone and consortia of
three isolates showed significant improvement in growth parameters such as shoot 
length, fresh weight and dry weight in a pot experiment. Colonization of
endosphere of treated tomato seedlings by the endophytic isolate Bacillus
velezensis GL3 was confirmed by visualization of colony morphology and BOX-PCR
fingerprinting. Our study highlights the potential of endophytes associated with 
unexplored plants like G. gnemon for development of bioformulation aimed at
enhancing plant growth and bacterial wilt disease control.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126503 
PMID: 32497966 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.

