
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 Feb 16;315:108419. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2019.108419. Epub 2019 Nov 5.

Sucrose enhances colour formation in dry sausages by up-regulating gene
expression of nitric oxide synthase in Staphylococcus vitulinus.

Huang P(1), Shao X(1), Zhu M(1), Xu B(1), Chen C(1), Li P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Engineering Research Center of Bio-process, Ministry of Education, Hefei
University of Technology, Hefei 230009, China; School of Food and Biological
Engineering, Hefei University of Technology, Hefei 230009, China.
(2)Engineering Research Center of Bio-process, Ministry of Education, Hefei
University of Technology, Hefei 230009, China; School of Food and Biological
Engineering, Hefei University of Technology, Hefei 230009, China. Electronic
address: lipeijun@hfut.edu.cn.

The effects of glucose and sucrose on the gene expression of nitric oxide
synthase (NOS) in Staphylococcus vitulinus and colour formation in dry sausages
were investigated. The results showed that sucrose addition promoted nitric oxide
(NO) production in media when compared with glucose. In addition, sucrose could
up-regulate nos (encoding NOS) and katA (encoding catalase KatA) gene expression 
by enhancing oxidative stress levels. In the sausages inoculated with S.
vitulinus, a*-values (indicating redness) of the sausages with added sucrose were
higher than those of samples with added glucose (P < 0.05) but did not differ
from those in the nitrite treatment group (P > 0.05). The UV-vis spectra results 
showed that nitrosylmyoglobin (NO-Mb) was formed in the sausages with either S.
vitulinus or nitrite added. In the S. vitulinus-inoculated sausages, sucrose
addition led to a higher NO-Mb content than that after glucose addition, which
was attributed to up-regulation of the nos gene. This study provides a potential 
method to enhance NO yield in S. vitulinus and colour formation in dry sausages
without nitrite addition.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2019.108419 
PMID: 31734616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

