
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Sep 10. pii: S0022-0302(20)30685-8. doi:
10.3168/jds.2020-18265. [Epub ahead of print]

Distribution of non-aureus staphylococci from quarter milk, teat apices, and
rectal feces of dairy cows, and their virulence potential.

Wuytack A(1), De Visscher A(2), Piepers S(1), Boyen F(3), Haesebrouck F(3), De
Vliegher S(4).

Author information: 
(1)M-team and Mastitis and Milk Quality Research Unit, Department of
Reproduction, Obstetrics, and Herd Health, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent 
University, 9820 Merelbeke, Belgium.
(2)Flanders Research Institute for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (ILVO),
Technology and Food Science, Agricultural Engineering, Burg. Van Gansberghelaan
115 bus 1, 9820 Merelbeke, Belgium.
(3)Department of Pathology, Bacteriology and Avian Diseases, Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University, 9820 Merelbeke, Belgium.
(4)M-team and Mastitis and Milk Quality Research Unit, Department of
Reproduction, Obstetrics, and Herd Health, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent 
University, 9820 Merelbeke, Belgium. Electronic address:
Sarne.Devliegher@UGent.be.

Non-aureus staphylococci (NAS) are predominantly isolated from bovine milk
samples of quarters suffering from subclinical mastitis. They are also abundantly
present on dairy cows' teat apices and can be recovered from bovine fecal
samples, as recently described. Differences in ecology, epidemiology, effect on
udder health, and virulence or protective traits have been reported among the
species within this group. The objectives of this study were (1) to describe the 
species-specific distribution of NAS in 3 bovine-associated habitats, namely
quarter milk, teat apices, and rectal feces, and (2) to evaluate the virulence
potential of NAS by comparing their distribution in contrasting milk sample
strata and the presence of selected virulence genes. A cross-sectional,
systematic sampling procedure was followed in 8 dairy herds that participated in 
the local Dairy Herd Improvement program in Flanders, Belgium. Quarter milk
samples (n = 573) were collected from 144 lactating cows in 8 herds. In 5 of the 
8 herds, teat apex swabs (n = 192) were taken from 15 lactating cows, before and 
after milking, and from 18 dry cows. In the same 5 herds, rectal feces were
sampled from 80 lactating cows (n = 80), taking into account that a cow could
only serve as the source of one type of sample. In addition, milk samples of all 
clinical mastitis cases were continuously collected during the 1-yr study period 
from March 2017 to March 2018 in the 8 herds. In total, 1,676 Staphylococcus
isolates were phenotypically identified and subjected to MALDI-TOF mass
spectrometry. Thirty-three, 98, and 28% of all quarter milk, teat apex, and
rectal fecal samples were NAS-positive, respectively, reaffirming the presence of
NAS in rectal feces. The overall predominant species in the 3 habitats combined
were Staphylococcus haemolyticus, Staphylococcus chromogenes, and Staphylococcus 
hominis. Four, 16, and 12% of the healthy quarters (quarter milk somatic cell
count ≤50,000 cells/mL of milk), quarters with subclinical mastitis (quarter milk
somatic cell count >50,000 cells/mL of milk), and quarters with clinical
mastitis, respectively, were NAS-positive, suggesting that the potential to cause
(mild) clinical mastitis is present among NAS. This was substantiated by
comparing the presence of virulence genes of NAS isolates originating from
contrasting milk sample strata (healthy quarters and quarters with clinical
mastitis).

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-18265 
PMID: 32921446 

