
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Aug;103(8):7416-7424. doi: 10.3168/jds.2019-17774. Epub 2020
May 29.

Short communication: Effects of moringa extract on adhesion and invasion of
Escherichia coli O55 in bovine mammary epithelial cells.

Cheng WN(1), Jeong CH(1), Kim DH(1), Han SG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Biotechnology of Animal Resources, Konkuk
University, Seoul 05029, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Food Science and Biotechnology of Animal Resources, Konkuk
University, Seoul 05029, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
hansg@konkuk.ac.kr.

The objective of this study was to evaluate the antibacterial activities of
extract derived from moringa leaves. In particular, the effect of moringa extract
(Mor) on adhesion and invasion of Escherichia coli O55, Enterococcus faecalis,
Staphylococcus simulans, and Serratia liquefaciens was evaluated in bovine
mammary epithelial cells (MAC-T). Broth microdilution method, minimum inhibitory 
concentration and minimum bactericidal concentration assays, adhesion and
invasion assays, and real-time PCR were performed. The minimum inhibitory
concentration and minimum bactericidal concentration of Mor ranged from 12.5 to
50 mg/mL on 18 out of 27 tested isolates. Treatment of E. coli O55 with Mor (100 
and 200 μg/mL) inhibited the adhesion and invasion on MAC-T cells via
downregulation of adhesion factors (i.e., papC, f17c-A, and eaeA). Also, when
MAC-T cells were pretreated with Mor (200 μg/mL, 12 h) and incubated with E. coli
O55, Enterococcus faecalis, Staphylococcus simulans, or Serratia liquefaciens,
both E. coli O55 and Enterococcus faecalis showed a significant decrease in
adhesion and invasion. Staphylococcus simulans exhibited decreased adhesion and
increased invasion. Serratia liquefaciens showed increased adhesion and decreased
invasion. In addition, Mor increased mRNA expression of antioxidant enzymes
(e.g., heme oxygenase-1, NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase-1, and thioredoxin
reductase 1) in MAC-T cells. In conclusion, 12.5 to 50 mg/mL of Mor exhibited
antibacterial activity against 18 out of 27 tested isolates. Also, pretreatment
of 200 μg/mL of Mor to MAC-T cells modulated adhesion and invasion of E. coli O55
and other mastitis-associated pathogens. Furthermore, Mor increased antioxidant
capacities in MAC-T cells, but further in vivo studies are needed.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2019-17774 
PMID: 32475678 

