
1. Chem Biodivers. 2020 Mar;17(3):e1900608. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.201900608. Epub 2020
Feb 28.

Dual Valorization of Olive Mill Wastewater by Bio-Nanosynthesis of Magnesium
Oxide and Yarrowia lipolytica Biomass Production.

Hamimed S(1), Jebli N(2), Sellami H(3), Landoulsi A(1), Chatti A(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Carthage,
Faculty of Sciences of Bizerte, CP 7021-, Jarzouna, Tunisia.
(2)Laboratory of Hetero-Organic Compounds and Nanostructured Materials,
University of Carthage, Faculty of Sciences of Bizerte, CP 7021-, Jarzouna,
Tunisia.
(3)Laboratory of Wastewater Treatment, Water Research and Technology Center
CERTE, Technopole Borj Cedria, CP 8020-, Soliman, Tunisia.

This research investigates an efficient dual valorization of olive mill
wastewater in the biosynthesis of magnesium oxide nanoparticles and in the
depollution of the effluent by Yarrowia lipolytica growth evaluation. After
removal of polyphenols, the recovered biophenols were reacted with the magnesium 
precursor to provide magnesium oxide nanoparticles. In order to confirm the
biosynthesized magnesium oxide nanoparticles, several analyses were undertaken.
The Fourier transform infrared spectrum gives a broad absorption at 658 cm-1
confirming the presence of the magnesium oxide nanoparticles, while the UV/VIS
absorption spectroscopy reveals an intense transition with a maximum absorption
at 300 nm. The X-ray diffraction and transmission electron microscopy analyses
show that nanoparticles are in pure cubic crystalline with spherical and
hexagonal shapes (average size is 19.4 nm). The zeta potential analysis
illustrates a negative potential proving a good stability of the biosynthesized
nanoparticles. Nanoparticles were assigned for their in vitro antibacterial
activity against Escherichia coli, Enterobacter aerogenes, Salmonella
typhimurium, Staphylococcus cohnii, and Bacillus niacini. The evaluation of the
growth of Yarrowia lipolytica on the recovered olive mill wastewater after
removal of polyphenols yielded 3.2 g/L of the Yarrowia biomass in 72 h without
nutriment additions, providing an important decrease of chemical oxygen demand
(73 %).

© 2020 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.201900608 
PMID: 32017363 

