
1. Infect Genet Evol. 2020 Apr;79:104148. doi: 10.1016/j.meegid.2019.104148. Epub
2019 Dec 17.

Genomic epidemiology of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus sciuri carrying a
SCCmec-mecC hybrid element.

Paterson GK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Easter Bush Pathology, Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies and The
Roslin Institute, University of Edinburgh, Easter Bush Campus, Midlothian EH25
9RG, UK. Electronic address: gavin.paterson@ed.ac.uk.

The recognition in 2011 of the methicillin resistance determinate mecC among
staphylococci has raised many questions over its evolution and epidemiology.
While mecC has been best studied in Staphylococcus aureus it has also been
described in at least nine other species of staphylococci. In most cases these
studies are limited to single isolates. In the widespread animal commensal
Staphylococcus sciuri mecC has been described in two isolates and is located
within a distinct SCCmec-mecC composite element. In this study, a further 11
mecA/mecC S. sciuri isolated from dairy farms in England and Wales in 2015 and
2016 were genome sequenced and characterised. The results show that two variants 
of the SCCmec-mecC element are present in S. sciuri, differentiated by different 
ccr alleles and likely to have arisen by homologous recombination. A phylogeny of
sixty genome-sequenced S. sciuri isolates was made using core genome multi-locus 
sequence typing and reveals a diverse population with the SCCmec-mecC element
present in four distinct branches, indicative of four independent acquisitions by
S. sciuri. Finally, the study identified the rapid clonal expansion of a
mecA/mecC lineage of S. sciuri among dairy farms across a wide geographical area 
which may contribute to the future dissemination of this methicillin resistance
cassette.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meegid.2019.104148 
PMID: 31862259 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

