
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 May 16;321:108550. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108550. Epub 2020 Feb 5.

Lethality of high-pressure carbon dioxide on Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia
coli, Salmonella and surrogate organisms on beef jerky.

Schultze DM(1), Couto R(1), Temelli F(1), McMullen LM(1), Gänzle M(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Alberta, Department of Agricultural, Food and Nutritional
Science. 4-10 Agriculture/Forestry Centre, Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2P5, Canada.
(2)University of Alberta, Department of Agricultural, Food and Nutritional
Science. 4-10 Agriculture/Forestry Centre, Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2P5, Canada.
Electronic address: mgaenzle@ualberta.ca.

Low water activity (aW) foods permit the survival of low-infectious dose
pathogens including Escherichia coli and Salmonella. Desiccation of non-heat
resistant E. coli and Salmonella enterica increases their heat resistance;
therefore, alternative methods are necessary to ensure the safety of low aW
foods. High-pressure carbon dioxide (HPCD) reduced microbial contaminants in high
aW foods. This study aimed to identify HPCD conditions that reduce pathogenic E. 
coli and Salmonella in low aW conditions. Four strains of Shiga toxin-producing
E. coli (STEC) and one strain of enteropathogenic E. coli were treated as a
cocktail, and five strains of Salmonella were treated individually. The
suitability of E. coli AW1.7, Pediococcus acidilactici FUA 3072, Enterococcus
faecium NRRL B-2354 and Staphylococcus carnosus R6 FUA 2133 as surrogate
organisms was evaluated. Treatments were validated in beef jerky. Samples were
equilibrated to aW 0.75 and treated with heat, HPCD or pressurized N2. Treatment 
of desiccated E. coli AW1.7 and the STEC cocktail with dry gaseous CO2 (5.7 MPa
and 65 °C) did not reduce cell counts; however, treatment with gaseous CO2
saturated with water reduced cell counts of all strains of E. coli. Treatment of 
beef jerky inoculated with E. coli and Salmonella with saturated gaseous CO2
resulted in >5-log reductions for all strains. E. faecium NRRL B-2354 and S.
carnosus R6 were suitable surrogates for Salmonella on beef jerky treated with
HPCD. Treatment of beef jerky with water-saturated gaseous CO2 was more effective
than treatment with supercritical CO2 or treatments with N2 at the same
temperature and pressure. Overall, the treatment of low aW foods with
water-saturated gaseous HPCD can meet industry standards by achieving a >5-log
reductions of E. coli and Salmonella. Additionally, surrogate organisms
representing pathogenic E. coli and Salmonella have been validated.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108550 
PMID: 32058874  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

