
1. Vet Microbiol. 2020 Sep 21;250:108850. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2020.108850. [Epub
ahead of print]

Antimicrobial resistance and genomic insights into bovine mastitis-associated
Staphylococcus aureus in Australia.

O'Dea M(1), Abraham RJ(1), Sahibzada S(1), Lee T(1), Jordan D(2), Laird T(1),
Pang S(1), Buller N(3), Stegger M(4), Coombs GW(1), Trott DJ(5), Abraham S(6).

Author information: 
(1)Antimicrobial Resistance and Infectious Diseases Laboratory, College of
Science, Health, Engineering and Education, Murdoch University, Murdoch, WA,
Australia.
(2)Antimicrobial Resistance and Infectious Diseases Laboratory, College of
Science, Health, Engineering and Education, Murdoch University, Murdoch, WA,
Australia; NSW Department of Primary Industries, Wollongbar, NSW, Australia.
(3)Department of Primary Industries and Regional Development, South Perth, WA,
Australia.
(4)Antimicrobial Resistance and Infectious Diseases Laboratory, College of
Science, Health, Engineering and Education, Murdoch University, Murdoch, WA,
Australia; Department of Bacteria, Parasites and Fungi, Statens Serum Institut,
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(5)School of Animal and Veterinary Sciences, The University of Adelaide,
Roseworthy, SA, Australia.
(6)Antimicrobial Resistance and Infectious Diseases Laboratory, College of
Science, Health, Engineering and Education, Murdoch University, Murdoch, WA,
Australia. Electronic address: s.abraham@murdoch.edu.au.

The aim of this study was to investigate antimicrobial resistance and population 
structure of bovine mastitis-associated Staphylococcus aureus isolates, and
compare them to human isolates obtained from Western Australian hospitals and
overseas strains to determine relatedness to human isolates from a zoonotic or
reverse zoonotic aspect. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing was performed on
202 S. aureus isolates of which 166 isolates underwent whole genome sequencing.
Only resistance to penicillin (12.4%) and erythromycin (0.5%) was identified and 
of note, no resistance was demonstrated to oxacillin. Genomic characterisation
identified 14 multilocus sequence types (STs), with most isolates belonging to
clonal complexes 97, 705, and 1. Four distinct clades based on virulence gene
composition were identified. The four clades were predominantly ST based,
consisting of ST352, ST97, ST81/ST1, and ST705. Core genome comparison of the
bovine and human S. aureus isolates demonstrated defined clustering by ST, with
the Australian bovine S. aureus isolates clustering together according to their
ST separately from human isolates. In addition, a bovine specific cluster
comprising Australian ST151 and ST705 isolates, and ST151 isolates from Irish
dairy cattle was clearly delineated. Examination of a detailed ST352 phylogeny
provided evidence for geographical clustering of Australian strains into a
distinct grouping separate from international strains. This study has identified 
Australian S. aureus isolates have limited genetic diversity and are genetically 
distinct from human and international bovine S. aureus isolates. Current first
line therapies for bovine mastitis in Australian dairy cattle remain appropriate.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2020.108850 
PMID: 33011663 

