
1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2020 Sep 28. pii: AAC.01495-20. doi:
10.1128/AAC.01495-20. [Epub ahead of print]

In vitro study to evaluate the bioactivity of freezing a heparin-based
dalbavancin lock solution.

Rubia M(1), Cordero A(2), Pérez-Granda MJ(3)(4)(5), Cercenado E(3)(6), Pascual
C(7), Muñoz P(3)(4)(5)(6), Guembe M(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, School of Biology, Universidad Complutense de Madrid,
Spain.
(2)Biology Department, School of Biology, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, Hospital General 
Universitario Gregorio Marañón, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria Gregorio Marañón, Madrid, Spain.
(5)CIBER Enfermedades Respiratorias-CIBERES (CB06/06/0058), Madrid, Spain.
(6)Medicine Department, School of Medicine, Universidad Complutense de Madrid,
Spain.
(7)Hematology Department, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañón,
Madrid, Spain.

Background. The use of dalbavancin as a catheter lock solution must be addressed 
in depth before implementation in clinical practice. We assessed whether a
heparin-based dalbavancin lock solution could be frozen in single-dose vials for 
6 months without affecting its bioactivity against biofilms of
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus epidermidis (MRSE).Methods. Over 6 months, we tested the
bioactivity of a frozen solution of dalbavancin (≈1 mg/ml) + heparin (60 IU) in
terms of cfu counts and metabolic activity against biofilms of Staphylococcus
aureus ATCC43300 (MRSA) and Staphylococcus epidermidis ATCC35984 (MRSE). The
AntiXa assay was also performed to assess whether the anticoagulant activity of
heparin was reduced under freezing. Every month, we compared the mean value of
each variable with that obtained at baseline (before freezing, month 0) using
both statistical criteria (linear mixed models) and clinical criteria (values
were within 25% of the baseline value).Results. At the end of the experiment
(month 6), neither a statistically nor a clinically significant reduction in the 
bioactivity of dalbavancin-heparin solution was observed in terms of cfu counts
and metabolic activity against biofilm of MRSA. Regarding MRSE, the reduction was
statistically significant for all variables. However, considering the clinical
criteria, neither cfu counts nor metabolic activity decreased significantly.
AntiXa values (mean [SD] IU/ml) for heparin in combination with dalbavancin were 
within 25% of the heparin-water value.Conclusion. A heparin-based dalbavancin
lock solution can be frozen for up to 6 months with no effect on its bioactivity 
against MRSA and MRSE biofilms.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01495-20 
PMID: 32988823 

