
1. Vet Microbiol. 2020 Aug;247:108764. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2020.108764. Epub 2020 
Jun 17.

The canine skin and ear microbiome: A comprehensive survey of pathogens
implicated in canine skin and ear infections using a novel
next-generation-sequencing-based assay.

Tang S(1), Prem A(2), Tjokrosurjo J(2), Sary M(2), Van Bel MA(3),
Rodrigues-Hoffmann A(4), Kavanagh M(5), Wu G(2), Van Eden ME(1), Krumbeck JA(6).

Author information: 
(1)MiDOG LLC, 17062 Murphy Ave, Irvine, CA, 92614, USA; Zymo Research
Corporation, 17062 Murphy Ave, Irvine, CA, 92614, USA.
(2)MiDOG LLC, 17062 Murphy Ave, Irvine, CA, 92614, USA.
(3)MiDOG LLC, 17062 Murphy Ave, Irvine, CA, 92614, USA; Department of Veterinary 
Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M
University, College Station, TX, USA; Saddleback Animal Hospital, 1082 Bryan Ave,
Tustin, CA, 92780, USA; Zymo Research Corporation, 17062 Murphy Ave, Irvine, CA, 
92614, USA.
(4)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine &
Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, USA.
(5)Saddleback Animal Hospital, 1082 Bryan Ave, Tustin, CA, 92780, USA.
(6)MiDOG LLC, 17062 Murphy Ave, Irvine, CA, 92614, USA; Zymo Research
Corporation, 17062 Murphy Ave, Irvine, CA, 92614, USA. Electronic address:
jkrumbeck@midogtest.com.

This study analyzed the complex bacterial and fungal microbiota of healthy and
clinically affected canine ear and skin samples. A total of 589 canine samples
were included: 257 ear swab samples (128 healthy vs. 129 clinically affected) and
332 skin swab samples (172 healthy vs. 160 clinically affected) were analyzed
using next-generation sequencing (NGS) to determine both relative and absolute
abundances of bacteria and fungi present in the samples. This study highlighted
the canine microbiota of clinically affected cases was characterized by an
overall loss of microbial diversity, high microbial biomass, with overgrowth of
certain members of the microbiota. The observed phenotype of these samples was
best described by the combination of both relative and absolute microbial
abundances. Compared to healthy samples, 78.3% of the clinically affected ear
samples had microbial overgrowth; 69.8% bacterial overgrowth, 16.3% fungal
overgrowth, and 7.0% had both bacterial and fungal overgrowth. The most important
microbial taxa enriched in clinically affected ears were Malassezia
pachydermatis, Staphylococcus pseudintermedius, Staphylococcus schleiferi, and a 
few anaerobic bacteria such as Finegoldia magna, Peptostreptococcus canis, and
Porphyromonas cangingivalis. The anaerobic microbes identified here were
previously not commonly recognized as pathogens in canine ear infections. Similar
observations were found for skin samples, but yeasts and anaerobes were less
abundant when compared to clinically affected cases. Results highlighted herein, 
signify the potential of NGS-based methods for the accurate quantification and
identification of bacterial and fungal populations in diagnosing canine skin and 
ear infections, and highlight the limitations of traditional culture-based
testing.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2020.108764 
PMID: 32768216 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Drs.
Rodrigues-Hoffman and Kavanagh are currently on the MiDOG LLC advisory board.

