
1. BMC Vet Res. 2019 Nov 4;15(1):391. doi: 10.1186/s12917-019-2137-9.

Genetic characterisation of staphylococci of food-producing animals in Senegal.
PVL detection among MSSA.

Mama OM(1), Dieng M(2), Hanne B(3), Ruiz-Ripa L(1), Diop CGM(2), Torres C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento Agricultura y Alimentación, Área de Bioquímica y Biología
Molecular, Universidad de La Rioja, Madre de Dios 51, 26006, Logroño, Spain.
(2)LAE/ Ecole Supérieure polytechnique de Dakar, UCAD, Dakar, Sénégal.
(3)Service Vétérinaire, Société de gestion des abattoirs du Sénégal, Dakar,
Sénégal.
(4)Departamento Agricultura y Alimentación, Área de Bioquímica y Biología
Molecular, Universidad de La Rioja, Madre de Dios 51, 26006, Logroño, Spain.
carmen.torres@unirioja.es.

BACKGROUND: Food-producing animals can be a vehicle for staphylococcal species as
well as their virulence and antimicrobial resistance genes. This work aimed to
analyse the diversity of staphylococcal species in food-producing animals in
Dakar/Senegal, and to determine the antimicrobial resistance phenotype/genotype
and virulence factors of recovered isolates. Nasal samples of 149 cows and 199
chickens (348 animals) were collected from one slaughterhouse and a local market 
respectively, and were inoculated on selective media for staphylococci recovery. 
For S. aureus isolates, molecular typing (spa-type, MLST) was performed by
PCR/sequencing, and the presence of 27 virulence genes (exfoliative and toxic
shock toxins, PVL, haemolysins and enterotoxins) as well as the gene scn were
analysed by PCR. Susceptibility to twelve antibiotics was studied by
disc-diffusion method for all staphylococci; the resistance genes involved were
screened by PCR.
RESULTS: Staphylococcus spp. was present in 3 and 26.8% of chicken and cow nasal 
samples, respectively. Seven S. aureus isolates and forty isolates of other
staphylococcal species were identified. S. aureus isolates were recovered from
cow (n = 6) and chicken (n = 1) samples, belonging to four genetic lineages:
t084/ST15 (n = 1); t10579/ST291 (n = 3); t355, t4690/ST152 (n = 2); and t6618/ST6
(n = 1). All S. aureus were methicillin-susceptible, penicillin-resistant (blaZ),
and two of them were also tetracycline-resistant [tet(K)]. All the isolates
carried at least one of the virulence genes tested. The PVL genes were detected
in three ST15 and ST152 isolates. They all harboured haemolysins encoding genes
and lacked the scn gene. The other staphylococci recovered were S. sciuri
(n = 16), S. simulans (n = 11), S. hyicus (n = 5), S. haemolyticus (n = 4), S.
chromogenes (n = 3), and S. hominis (n = 1); they were all
methicillin-susceptible and 27.5% tetracycline-resistant [tet(K) and tet(L)].
CONCLUSIONS: A low prevalence of S. aureus was detected among food-producing
animals, all susceptible to methicillin. However, the presence of virulence genes
(lukF/lukS-PV, eta, tst, sea and see) is worrisome to the extent that they could 
be transferred to derived food and therefore, to humans.

DOI: 10.1186/s12917-019-2137-9 
PMCID: PMC6829939
PMID: 31684939  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

