
1. Infect Drug Resist. 2020 Sep 14;13:3163-3169. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S274163.
eCollection 2020.

Antibiotic Resistance and mecA Gene Characterization of Coagulase-negative
Staphylococci Isolated from Clinical Samples in Nepal.

Shrestha LB(1), Bhattarai NR(1), Rai K(1), Khanal B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology & Infectious Diseases, B. P. Koirala Institute of Health
Sciences, Dharan, Sunsari 56700, Nepal.

Background: Coagulase-negative Staphylococci (CoNS) are a significant cause of
hospital-acquired and foreign-body-related infections. We conducted this research
to assess methicillin susceptibility of CoNS by disc diffusion, agar dilution,
and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods and to assess the antimicrobial
susceptibility pattern.
Methods: We received 123 CoNS isolates from different specimens including blood, 
endotracheal tube, and central venous catheter. We performed sample processing,
identification, and characterization following standard guidelines. Antimicrobial
susceptibility was tested based on clinical and laboratory standards institute
guidelines. We detected methicillin-resistant coagulase-negative staphylococci
(MRCoNS) through mecA gene, disc diffusion method, and agar dilution method and
compared the accuracy with PCR as reference.
Results: We detected eight species of CoNS with Staphylococcus epidermidis as the
most common. Most of the samples were received from the intensive care unit and
blood was the dominant specimen followed by endotracheal-tube aspirate.
Seventy-one percentage of isolates were methicillin-resistant by PCR method; disc
diffusion and agar dilution method detected methicillin resistance with an
accuracy of 96.7% and 98.3%, respectively. Antimicrobial susceptibility revealed 
an association between the different origins of samples, and also among the types
of sample. Similarly, a comparison of the degree of resistance of antimicrobial
agents between mecA gene positive and negative isolates showed significant
differences. Vancomycin, linezolid, and teicoplanin are still effective for
treating MRCoNS.
Conclusion: CoNS are a crucial cause of human infections especially in an
intensive care unit setup where the use of devices is common. Disc diffusion and 
agar dilution are reliable for the detection of MRCoNS. The degree of
antimicrobial resistance is much higher in organisms obtained from intensive care
unit and foreign-body-related infections.

Â© 2020 Shrestha et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S274163 
PMCID: PMC7501466
PMID: 32982331 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in
this work.

