
1. Mater Sci Eng C Mater Biol Appl. 2020 Sep;114:111024. doi:
10.1016/j.msec.2020.111024. Epub 2020 Apr 28.

Photocatalytic reduction and anti-bacterial activity of biosynthesized silver
nanoparticles against multi drug resistant Staphylococcus saprophyticus BDUMS 5
(MN310601).

Rajivgandhi GN(1), Maruthupandy M(2), Li JL(1), Dong L(1), Alharbi NS(3),
Kadaikunnan S(3), Khaled JM(3), Alanzi KF(3), Li WJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of
Plant Resources and Southern Marine Science and Engineering Guangdong Laboratory 
(Zhuhai), School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou 510275, PR
China.
(2)Laboratorio de Nanocelulosa y Biomateriales, Departamento de Ingeniería
Química, Biotecnología y Materiales, Facultad de Ciencias Físicas y Matemáticas, 
Universidad de Chile, Avenida Beauchef 851, Santiago, Chile.
(3)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Science, King Saud
University, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of
Plant Resources and Southern Marine Science and Engineering Guangdong Laboratory 
(Zhuhai), School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou 510275, PR
China; State Key Laboratory of Desert and Oasis Ecology, Xinjiang Institute of
Ecology and Geography, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Urumqi 830011, PR China.
Electronic address: liwenjun3@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

In this study, silver nanoparticles (Ag NPs) was eco-friendly synthesized using
purified flavonoid rich content of Morinda citrifolia (M. citrifolia) extract.
The synthesized Ag NPs was exhibited at 420 nm in UV-spectrometer, and surface
morphology with available chemical composition, shape and size of the Ag NPs were
confirmed by X-ray diffraction (XRD) variation, scanning electron microscope
(SEM) with energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) and transmission electron
microscope (TEM). In addition, the excellent phytochemicals and anti-oxidant
activity of the Ag NPs were confirmed by total anti-oxidant and DPPH free radical
scavenging assays. Further, the concentration dependent inhibition of synthesized
Ag NPs against biofilm forming Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) was confirmed by
minimum inhibition concentration (MIC). The growth cells were arrested in the log
phase of the culture and detected by flow cytometry analysis. In addition, the
bacterial viability, exopolysaccharide degradation, intracellular membrane
damage, matured biofilm inhibition, architectural damage and morphological
alteration were confirmed by confocal laser scanning electron microscope (CLSM)
and SEM. Furthermore, the synthesized Ag NPs reacted with methylene blue (MB) dye
molecules has 100% degradation at an irradiation time of 140 min. Conclusively,
the eco-friendly synthesized Ag NPs has excellent anti-oxidant, anti-bacterial
through intracellular membrane damage, cell cycle arrest and methylene blue dye
removal.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msec.2020.111024 
PMID: 32994001 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors
declare no any conflict of interest.

