
1. Microb Ecol. 2020 Jan;79(1):164-174. doi: 10.1007/s00248-019-01382-y. Epub 2019
May 2.

Commensal Staphylococci Including Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus
from Dogs and Cats in Remote New South Wales, Australia.

Ma GC(1), Worthing KA(1)(2), Ward MP(1), Norris JM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Sydney School of Veterinary Science, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New
South Wales, Australia.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Peter Doherty Institute for
Infection and Immunity, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Sydney School of Veterinary Science, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New
South Wales, Australia. jacqui.norris@sydney.edu.au.

Staphylococci are important opportunistic pathogens in human and veterinary
medicine in addition to being part of the normal flora of the skin and mucous
membranes of mammals and birds. The rise of antimicrobial resistance amongst
staphylococci warrants closer investigation of the diversity of skin commensal
organisms-including coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNS)-due to their
potential as a source of resistance genes. This study is aimed at characterising 
the commensal staphylococci-including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
species (spp.)-from mucocutaneous sites of dogs and cats from remote New South
Wales (NSW), Australia. Pet dogs and cats were recruited from participants in a
community companion animal health programme in six communities in western NSW.
Three swabs were collected from each animal (anterior nares, oropharynx, and
perineum) and from skin lesions or wounds if present and cultured on selective
media for Staphylococcus spp. In total, 383 pets (303 dogs, 80 cats) were
enrolled. Staphylococcus spp. were isolated from 67.3% of dogs and 73.8% of cats 
(494 isolates). The diversity of CoNS was high (20 species) whilst only three
coagulase-positive spp. were isolated (S. pseudintermedius, S. aureus, S.
intermedius). The prevalence of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
(MRSA) carriage in dogs was high (2.6%) relative to other studies but was only a 
small proportion of overall commensal staphylococci. No cats carried MRSA and no 
MRSP was isolated from either species. Dogs were significantly more likely to
carry coagulase-positive staphylococci than cats (P < 0.001). Amongst dogs, males
and those with skin lesions were more likely to carry S. pseudintermedius. This
study highlights important differences in the diversity and patterns of carriage 
of commensal staphylococci between dogs and cats in remote NSW, Australia.

DOI: 10.1007/s00248-019-01382-y 
PMID: 31049616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

