
1. Food Sci Anim Resour. 2020 Jul;40(4):512-526. doi: 10.5851/kosfa.2020.e29. Epub
2020 Jul 1.

Selection and Characterization of Staphylococcus hominis subsp. hominis WiKim0113
Isolated from Kimchi as a Starter Culture for the Production of Natural
Pre-converted Nitrite.

Hwang H(1), Lee HJ(1), Lee MA(1), Sohn H(2), Chang YH(2), Han SG(2), Jeong JY(3),
Lee SH(4), Hong SW(1).

Author information: 
(1)World Institute of Kimchi, Gwangju 61755, Korea.
(2)Department of Food Science and Biotechnology of Animal Resources, Konkuk
University, Seoul 05029, Korea.
(3)School of Food Biotechnology and Nutrition, Kyungsung University, Busan 48434,
Korea.
(4)WooGene B&G Co. Ltd., Seoul 07299, Korea.

Synthetic nitrite is considered an undesirable preservative for meat products;
thus, controlling synthetic nitrite concentrations is important from the
standpoint of food safety. We investigated 1,000 species of microorganisms from
various kimchi preparations for their potential use as a starter culture for the 
production of nitrites. We used 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis to select a
starter culture with excellent nitrite and nitric oxide productivity, which we
subsequently identified as Staphylococcus hominis subspecies hominis WiKim0113.
That starter culture was grown in NaCl (up to 9%; w/v) at 10°C-40°C; its optimum 
growth was observed at 30°C at pH 4.0-10.0. It exhibited nonproteolytic activity 
and antibacterial activity against Clostridium perfringens, a bacterium that
causes food poisoning symptoms. Analysis of Staphylococcus hominis subspecies
hominis WiKim0113 with an API ZYM system did not reveal the presence of
β-glucuronidase, and tests of the starter culture on 5% (v/v) sheep blood agar
showed no hemolytic activity. Our results demonstrated the remarkable stability
of coagulase-negative Staphylococcus hominis subspecies hominis WiKim0113,
especially in strain negative for staphylococcal enterotoxins and sensitive to
clinically relevant antibiotics. Moreover, Staphylococcus hominis subspecies
hominis WiKim0113 exhibited a 45.5% conversion rate of nitrate to nitrite, with
nitrate levels reduced to 25% after 36 h of culturing in the minimal medium
supplemented with nitrate (200 ppm). The results clearly demonstrated the safety 
and utility of Staphylococcus hominis subspecies hominis WiKim0113, and therefore
its suitability as a starter culture.

© Korean Society for Food Science of Animal Resources.

DOI: 10.5851/kosfa.2020.e29 
PMCID: PMC7372994
PMID: 32734260 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no potential conflicts of
interest.

