
1. J Biol Chem. 2020 Sep 29. pii: jbc.RA120.014876. doi: 10.1074/jbc.RA120.014876.
[Epub ahead of print]

Structural and biochemical characteristics of two Staphylococcus
epidermidisÂ RNase J paralogues RNase J1 and RNase J2.

Raj R(1), Nadig S(1), Patel T(1), Gopal B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Indian Institute of Science, India.
(2)Molecular Biophysics Unit, Indian Institute of Science, India.

RNase J enzymes are metallo-hydrolases involved in RNA maturation, RNA recycling 
and govern gene expression in bacteria and catalyze both exo-nuclease and
endo-nuclease activity. The catalytic activity of RNase J is regulated by
multiple mechanisms which include oligomerization, conformational changes to aid 
substrate recognition and the metal cofactor at the active site. However, little 
is known of how RNase J paralogues differ in expression and activity. Here we
describe structural and biochemical features of two Staphylococcus epidermidis
RNase J paralogues RNase J1 and RNase J2. RNase J1 is a homo-dimer with
exo-nuclease activity aided by two metal co-factors at the active site. RNase J2,
on the other hand, has endo-nuclease activity, one metal ion at the active site
and is predominantly a monomer. We note that the expression levels of these
enzymes vary across Staphylococcal strains. Together, these observations suggest 
that multiple interacting RNase J paralogues could provide a strategy for
functional improvisation utilizing differences in intracellular concentration,
quaternary structure and distinct active site architecture despite overall
structural similarity.

Published under license by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.RA120.014876 
PMID: 32994223 

