
1. Nanomaterials (Basel). 2020 Sep 30;10(10). pii: E1954. doi: 10.3390/nano10101954.

Therapeutic Applications of Biostable Silver Nanoparticles Synthesized Using Peel
Extract of Benincasa hispida: Antibacterial and Anticancer Activities.

Soliman WE(1)(2), Khan S(3), Rizvi SMD(4), Moin A(4), Elsewedy HS(5), Abulila
AS(4), Shehata TM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Clinical Pharmacy, King Faisal
University, Alhofuf, Al-Ahsa 36362, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Delta
University for Science and Technology, Gamasa, Mansoura 11152, Egypt.
(3)Department of Biosciences, Integral University, Lucknow 226026, U.P., India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, University of Hail, Hail
2240, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Clinical Pharmacy, King
Faisal University, Alhofuf, Al-Ahsa 36362, Saudi Arabia.

The purpose of this study was to fabricate biostable inorganic silver
nanoparticles (AgNPs) using fresh peel (aqueous) extract of Benincasa hispida. A 
fast, robust, and eco-friendly approach was used for the synthesis of AgNPs,
where bioactive components of peel extract of B. hispida acted as reducing and
stabilizing agents. Synthesized AgNPs were characterized using a UV-Vis
spectrophotometer, Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), dynamic light 
scattering (DLS), and electron microscopy. The synthesized nanoparticles
exhibited maximum absorption at 418 nm under the typical AgNPs surface plasmon
resonance band range. They depicted a mean size of 26 ± 2 nm with a spherical
shape. Their therapeutic prospective was determined by evaluating their
antimicrobial and anticancer potential. The bio-synthesized silver nanoparticles 
exhibited strong antimicrobial activity with minimum inhibitory concentration
(MIC 50) values of 14.5, 8.6, 6.063, and 13.4 μg/mL against Staphylococcus aureus
(ATCC 25923), Micrococcus luteus (ATCC 14593), Escherichia coli (ATCC 25922), and
Klebsiella pneumonia (ATCC 13883), respectively. The biosynthesized AgNPs showed 
potent in vitro cytotoxicity against human cervical cancer cell line with a half 
maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) value of 0.066 μg/mL; however, no
cytotoxic effect was observed on normal human primary osteoblasts cell line. This
study explored B. hispida extract and confirmed its effectiveness as a promising 
source in producing AgNPs that could be employed for several therapeutic
applications.

DOI: 10.3390/nano10101954 
PMID: 33008104 

