
1. Front Microbiol. 2019 Oct 9;10:2302. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02302. eCollection
2019.

Exploring the Link Between the Geographical Origin of European Fermented Foods
and the Diversity of Their Bacterial Communities: The Case of Fermented Meats.

Van Reckem E(1), Geeraerts W(1), Charmpi C(1), Van der Veken D(1), De Vuyst L(1),
Leroy F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Group of Industrial Microbiology and Food Biotechnology (IMDO),
Faculty of Sciences and Bioengineering Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Brussel,
Brussels, Belgium.

European fermented meat products are prepared according to a wide variety of
different recipes and processing conditions, which can influence their
fermentative microbiota. However, due to the diverse processing conditions
applied across Europe, it remained unclear to which degree bacterial
heterogeneity can be encountered in commercially available fermented meat
products and whether this is linked to their geographical origin. Therefore, the 
bacterial species diversity of 80 fermented meat products available in the
Belgian retail, coming from five different countries, was investigated. It was
also assessed how this related to the country of origin and the key processing
parameters pH and salt concentration. The samples originated from Belgium,
France, Germany, Italy, and Spain. In general, Southern European fermented meat
products commonly had a higher pH, with their lactic acid bacteria (LAB)
communities being represented by Lactobacillus sakei and with mostly
Staphylococcus xylosus and Staphylococcus equorum governing over the
coagulase-negative staphylococci (CNS) communities. Among these products, the
Spanish variants showed a higher prevalence of S. equorum, whereas S. xylosus was
the prevailing CNS species in most French and Italian fermented meat products. In
contrast, Northern European fermented meat products were generally more acidified
and showed a higher prevalence of Pediococcus pentosaceus in their LAB
communities, whereas Staphylococcus carnosus represented the CNS communities.
Non-parametric statistical tests indicated the impact of the geographical origin 
on the prevalence of the LAB and CNS species. The latter was likely due to the
combination of differences in process technology as well as starter culture use.

Copyright Â© 2019 Van Reckem, Geeraerts, Charmpi, Van der Veken, De Vuyst and
Leroy.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02302 
PMCID: PMC6794416
PMID: 31649643 

