
1. Orthopedics. 2020 Oct 1:1-6. doi: 10.3928/01477447-20200923-03. [Epub ahead of
print]

Clinical Characteristics and Outcomes of Staphylococcus lugdunensis Prosthetic
Joint Infections: A Multicenter Retrospective Analysis.

Masood K, Redfern RE, Duggan JM, Georgiadis GM, Suleyman G.

Staphylococcus lugdunensis has been increasingly recognized as a cause of serious
infections, particularly prosthetic joint infections (PJIs). The aim of this
study was to describe the clinical characteristics, treatments, and outcomes of S
lugdunensis PJIs. This was a retrospective multicenter study of consecutive adult
patients with S lugdunensis PJIs from January 2007 through December 2017; 28
patients met inclusion criteria. The knee was the most commonly affected joint
(67.9%), followed by the hip (25%). Clinical and microbiologic characteristics,
treatment modalities, and outcomes were evaluated. Thirteen (46.4%) patients had 
two-stage revision, 9 (32.1%) had debridement with or without revision, 5 (21.4%)
had no surgical intervention, and 1 (3.6%) had one-stage revision. Twenty-four
(85.7%) patients had monomicrobial infection with S lugdunensis, whereas 4 had
polymicrobial. Two patients had concomitant bacteremia. All isolates, except 1,
were susceptible to oxacillin. Three patients with no surgical intervention
received oral antibiotics, 2 were not treated, and 1 was discharged to hospice.
Relapse was observed in 2 of 13 (15%) patients who had two-stage revision, 4 of 9
(44%) who had debridement, and 6 of 6 (100%) who had no surgical intervention or 
one-stage revision regardless of antibiotic treatment regimen. There was a
significant difference in cure rate for patients who underwent two-stage revision
compared with other treatment modalities (85% vs 33%, P=.009). Appropriate
management of S lugdunensis PJI includes both aggressive surgical treatment and a
prolonged course of antibiotics and is associated with excellent clinical
response. Regardless of route or duration of antibiotic therapy, relapse is high 
for patients not treated with two-stage revision. [Orthopedics.
2020;43(x):xx-xx.].

Copyright 2020, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/01477447-20200923-03 
PMID: 33002183 

