
1. Chimia (Aarau). 2020 May 27;74(5):391-397. doi: 10.2533/chimia.2020.391.

Effects of Sodium Chloride on Tyramine Production in a Fermented Food Model and
its Inhibition by Tyrosine-degrading Lactobacillus plantarum JA-1199.

Anderegg J(1), Constancias F(1), Meile L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Food Biotechnology, Institute of Food, Nutrition and Health, ETH
Zurich, Schmelzbergstrasse 7, CH-8092 Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)Laboratory of Food Biotechnology, Institute of Food, Nutrition and Health, ETH
Zurich, Schmelzbergstrasse 7, CH-8092 Zurich, Switzerland;, Email:
leo.meile@hest.ethz.ch.

Tyramine is a health-adverse biogenic amine, which can accumulate in fermented
foods like cheese by decarboxylation of the free amino acid tyrosine by either
starter cultures or resident microbes such as lactic acid bacteria including
Enterococcus spp., respectively. Our study aimed to show the effect of sodium
chloride concentrations on tyramine production as well as to characterise
bacterial strains as anti-tyramine biocontrol agents in a 2 mL micro-cheese
fermentation model. The effect of sodium chloride on tyramine production was
assayed with tyramine producing strains from eight different species or
subspecies. Generally, an increase in sodium chloride concentration enhanced
tyramine production, e.g. from 0% to 1.5% of sodium chloride resulted in an
increase of tyramine of 870% with a Staphylococcus xylosus strain. In the
biocontrol screening among lactic acid bacteria, a Lactobacillus plantarum
JA-1199 strain was screened that could consume in successful competition with
other resident bacteria tyrosine in the micro-cheese model as a source of energy 
gain. Thereby tyramine accumulation was reduced between 4% to 99%. The results of
this study disclose a feasible strategy for decreasing tyramine concentration and
increasing the safety level of fermented food. It is an example of development
and application of bacterial isolates as starter or protective cultures in food, 
a biocontrol topic, which Oreste Ghisalba - in his project evaluation function of
SNF and later on CTI - was promoting with great emphasis in our ETH Food
Biotechnology research group.

DOI: 10.2533/chimia.2020.391 
PMID: 32482216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

