
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Mar 26;8(4). pii: E473. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8040473.

New Insights into the Microbial Degradation of D-Cyphenothrin in Contaminated
Water/Soil Environments.

Huang Y(1)(2), Lin Z(1)(2), Zhang W(1)(2), Pang S(1)(2), Bhatt P(1)(2), Rene
ER(3), Kumar AJ(4), Chen S(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Subtropical
Agro-bioresources, Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of Microbial Signals and
Disease Control, Integrative Microbiology Research Centre, South China
Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642, China.
(2)Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern Agriculture, Guangzhou 510642, China.
(3)Department of Environmental Engineering and Water Technology, IHE Delft
Institute for Water Education, 2601DA Delft, The Netherlands.
(4)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang
212013, China.

Persistent use of the insecticide D-cyphenothrin has resulted in heavy
environmental contamination and public concern. However, microbial degradation of
D-cyphenothrin has never been investigated and the mechanism remains unknown.
During this study, for the first time, an efficient D-cyphenothrin-degrading
bacterial strain Staphylococcus succinus HLJ-10 was identified. Response surface 
methodology was successfully employed by using Box-Behnken design to optimize the
culture conditions. At optimized conditions, over 90% degradation of
D-cyphenothrin (50 mg·L-1) was achieved in a mineral salt medium within 7 d.
Kinetics analysis revealed that its half-life was reduced by 61.2 d, in
comparison with the uninoculated control. Eight intermediate metabolites were
detected in the biodegradation pathway of D-cyphenothrin including
cis-D-cyphenothrin, trans-D-cyphenothrin, 3-phenoxybenzaldehyde,
α-hydroxy-3-phenoxy-benzeneacetonitrile,
trans-2,2-dimethyl-3-propenyl-cyclopropanol,
2,2-dimethyl-3-propenyl-cyclopropionic acid,
trans-2,2-dimethyl-3-propenyl-cyclopropionaldehyde, and 1,2-benzenedicarboxylic
acid, dipropyl ester. This is the first report about the degradation of
D-cyphenothrin through cleavage of carboxylester linkage and diaryl bond. In
addition to degradation of D-cyphenothrin, strain HLJ-10 effectively degraded a
wide range of synthetic pyrethroids including permethrin, tetramethrin,
bifenthrin, allethrin, and chlorempenthrin, which are also widely used
insecticides with environmental contamination problems. Bioaugmentation of
D-cyphenothrin-contaminated soils with strain HLJ-10 substantially enhanced its
degradation and over 72% of D-phenothrin was removed from soils within 40 d.
These findings unveil the biochemical basis of a highly efficient
D-cyphenothrin-degrading bacterial isolate and provide potent agents for
eliminating environmental residues of pyrethroids.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8040473 
PMCID: PMC7232362
PMID: 32225056 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to
publish the results.

