
1. J Food Prot. 2020 Sep 1;83(9):1512-1519. doi: 10.4315/JFP-19-468.

Detection of Biogenic Amines and Tyramine-Producing Bacteria in Fermented
Sausages from Switzerland.

Anderegg J(1), Fischer M(1), DÜrig J(1), Die A(1), Lacroix C(1), Meile L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Food Biotechnology, Institute of Food, Nutrition and Health, ETH
Zurich, Schmelzbergstrasse 7, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland.

ABSTRACT: Fermented foods can cause human illness because of the unhealthy effect
of biogenic amines (BAs) that accumulate by decarboxylation of free amino acids. 
Salami-type fermented sausages can contain BAs, but which bacteria and
environmental factors contribute to BA production is not clear. Sixty-two
sausages purchased from Swiss markets were evaluated for decarboxylating
bacterial strains and concentrations of the BAs cadaverine, histamine,
putrescine, and tyramine. Based on the size and number of employees of the meat
processing plants, sausages were separated into two groups: artisanal and
industrial. Concentrations of all four BAs were higher in industrial sausages
than in artisanal sausages. Tyramine was the major BA detected in 46 of 62
sausages, at a maximum concentration of 785.22 mg/kg. Enterococci and
coagulase-negative staphylococci (mainly the meat starter culture Staphylococcus 
xylosus) were the main tyramine producers. Putrescine was found in 20 of 62
samples, at a maximum concentration of 707.77 mg/kg. Concentrations of these two 
BAs were significantly correlated (P = 0.0407). Cadaverine and histamine were
detected in nine and eight samples, respectively, and both were found in
significantly higher concentrations (P = 0.019 and 0.036, respectively) in
industrial sausages. Based on the tyramine concentration, five groups of
fermented sausages were identified: group 1, very high concentrations (>700
mg/kg); group 2, high concentrations (400 to 700 mg/kg); group 3, moderate
concentrations (200 to 400 mg/kg); group 4, low concentrations (<200 mg/kg);
group 5, concentrations below the detection limit (0.05 mg/kg). Product samples
with tyramine concentrations >200 mg/kg were considered of lower quality because 
consumption of such samples could be unhealthy for sensitive consumers.
HIGHLIGHTS:

Copyright ©, International Association for Food Protection.

DOI: 10.4315/JFP-19-468 
PMID: 32338740 

