
1. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2020 Jul 29. pii: dkaa306. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkaa306.
[Epub ahead of print]

Activity of ceftaroline versus ceftobiprole against staphylococci and pneumococci
in the UK and Ireland: analysis of BSAC surveillance data.

Horner C(1), Mushtaq S(2), Livermore DM(3); BSAC Resistance Surveillance Standing
Committee.

Author information: 
(1)British Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy, Birmingham, UK.
(2)Antimicrobial Resistance and Healthcare Associated Infections Reference Unit, 
Public Health England, London, UK.
(3)Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.

BACKGROUND: Ceftaroline and ceftobiprole inhibit most MRSA and MDR pneumococci.
Few direct comparisons of their activity have been published, but in several
years (2008, 2013, 2017 and 2018) both were tested in parallel in the BSAC
Resistance Surveillance Programme, giving paired results. These are reviewed.
METHODS: Isolates included were bloodstream Staphylococcus aureus [n = 1884
(MRSA, n = 234)], bloodstream CoNS (n = 813; 574 methicillin resistant), and
bloodstream (n = 852) and respiratory (n = 670) Streptococcus pneumoniae. MICs
were determined by BSAC agar dilution and reviewed against EUCAST breakpoints; S.
aureus breakpoints were assumed for CoNS.
RESULTS: Ceftaroline MICs were mostly 2-fold lower than those of ceftobiprole,
but, for all groups, MICs of both agents were strongly inter-related.
Methicillin-susceptible staphylococci were universally susceptible to both
agents; all MRSA were susceptible to ceftobiprole, whereas 10/234 had
intermediate/high-dose susceptibility to ceftaroline. Among methicillin-resistant
CoNS, 88% were susceptible to both agents, but reduced ceftaroline susceptibility
and ceftobiprole resistance were frequent (65%) among methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus haemolyticus. One S. pneumoniae was resistant to both ceftaroline 
(MIC 0.5 mg/L) and ceftobiprole (MIC 1 mg/L) and seven others were only resistant
to ceftobiprole (MIC 1 mg/L); seven of these eight pneumococci belonged to
serotype 19A or 19F. No time trend in susceptibility was seen for either
cephalosporin.
CONCLUSIONS: Ceftaroline and ceftobiprole have similarly good activity against
staphylococci and pneumococci. Therapeutic choices between these agents should be
predicated on other differentiating factors, including licensed indications,
clinical experience and need for Gram-negative coverage.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
British Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy. All rights reserved. For
permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkaa306 
PMID: 32728710 

