
1. Prev Vet Med. 2020 Jan;174:104815. doi: 10.1016/j.prevetmed.2019.104815. Epub
2019 Nov 2.

Association between species-specific staphylococcal intramammary infections and
milk somatic cell score over time in dairy goats.

Bernier Gosselin V(1), Dufour S(2), Middleton JR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery, College of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Missouri, 900 East Campus Dr., Columbia, MO, 65211 USA. Electronic 
address: v.bernier.gosselin@umontreal.ca.
(2)Department of Pathology and Microbiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
Université de Montréal, 3200 Sicotte, Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, J2S 2M2, Canada;
Mastitis Network, 3200 Sicotte, Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, J2S 2M2, Canada. Electronic 
address: simon.dufour@umontreal.ca.
(3)Department of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery, College of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Missouri, 900 East Campus Dr., Columbia, MO, 65211 USA. Electronic 
address: middletonjr@missouri.edu.

Numerous factors affect milk somatic cell score (SCS) in dairy goats including
physiologic factors such as stage of lactation, and pathological factors such as 
bacterial intramammary infection (IMI), e.g. staphylococcal IMI. The association 
between IMI and udder inflammation and especially differences in the inflammatory
response between the different staphylococcal species are yet to be identified.
The objectives of this study were to use data from a recently published
longitudinal study that characterized IMI status over time to evaluate the
species-specific effect of staphylococcal IMI on udder half-level milk SCS, and
to evaluate the effect of time since IMI diagnosis on this relationship.
Half-level milk samples for culture and determination of SCS were collected from 
171 goats starting within 10 days in milk (DIM), and then at various intervals
until ≥ 120 DIM. A mixed linear model was used to assess the effect of
species-specific staphylococcal IMI on SCS, accounting for confounding by
lentivirus infection, parity, DIM, and the contralateral half IMI status, and for
repeated measurements within udder half and for clustering of halves within goat.
A second model was used to evaluate the effect of time since first IMI diagnosis 
and its interaction with staphylococcal IMI status on the relationship between
staphylococcal IMI status and SCS. Lentivirus seropositivity and contralateral
half IMI status were associated with SCS. Staphylococcal IMI status was
associated with SCS, with differences between species. Staphyloccocus caprae,
Staphylococcus epidermidis, Staphylococcus simulans, and Staphylococcus xylosus
were associated with higher SCS than a number of other species. Time since first 
diagnosis did not modify the relationship between IMI status and SCS.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prevetmed.2019.104815 
PMID: 31731036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

