
1. Photochem Photobiol. 2020 Jan;96(1):156-169. doi: 10.1111/php.13168. Epub 2019
Oct 22.

Photoinactivation Sensitivity of Staphylococcus carnosus to Visible-light
Irradiation as a Function of Wavelength.

Hoenes K(1), Wenzel U(1), Spellerberg B(2), Hessling M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Engineering and Mechatronics, Ulm University of Applied
Sciences, Ulm, Germany.
(2)Institute of Medical Microbiology and Hygiene, University of Ulm, Ulm,
Germany.

Inactivation properties of visible light are of increasing interest due to
multiple possible fields of application concerning antibacterial treatment. For
violet wavelengths, the generation of reactive oxygen species by porphyrins is
accepted as underlying mechanism. However, there is still little knowledge about 
photosensitizers at blue wavelengths. While flavins were named as possible
candidates, there is still no experimental evidence. This study investigates the 
photoinactivation sensitivity of Staphylococcus carnosus to selected wavelengths 
between 390 and 500 nm in 10- to 25-nm intervals. Absorption and fluorescence
measurements in bacterial lysates confirmed inactivation findings. By means of a 
mathematical calculation in MATLAB® , a fit of different photosensitizer
absorption spectra to the measured action spectrum was determined to gain
knowledge about the extent to which specific photosensitizers are involved. The
most effective wavelength for S. carnosus at 415 nm could be explained by the
involvement of zinc protoporphyrin IX. Between 450 and 470 nm, inactivation
results indicated a broad plateau, statistically distinguishable from 440 and
480 nm. This observation points to flavins as responsible photosensitizers, which
furthermore seem to be involved at violet wavelengths. A spectral scan of
sensitivities might generally be an advantageous approach for examining
irradiation impact.

© 2019 American Society for Photobiology.

DOI: 10.1111/php.13168 
PMID: 31556126 

