
1. Microorganisms. 2020 May 26;8(6). pii: E793. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8060793.

Selection and Evaluation of Staphylococcus xylosus as a Biocontrol Agent against 
Toxigenic Moulds in a Dry-Cured Ham Model System.

Cebrián E(1), Núñez F(1), Gálvez FJ(1), Delgado J(1), Bermúdez E(1), Rodríguez
M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Food Hygiene and Safety, Meat and Meat Products Research Institute, Faculty of
Veterinary Science, University of Extremadura, 10003 Cáceres, Spain.

Toxigenic moulds can develop on the surface of dry-cured meat products during
ripening due to their ecological conditions, which constitutes a risk for
consumers. A promising strategy to control this hazard is the use of antifungal
microorganisms usually found in these foods. However, to date, the effectiveness 
of gram-positive catalase-positive cocci (GCC+) has not been explored. The aim of
this work was to select GCC+ isolates with antifungal activity to study its
effectiveness in a dry-cured ham model system at the environmental conditions
reached during the ripening. Forty-five strains of GCC+ were evaluated and the
isolate Staphylococcus xylosus Sx8 was selected to assess its efficacy at two
different concentrations (106 and 104 cfu/mL) against Penicillium nordicum,
Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus parasiticus, and Penicillium griseofulvum at 15, 
20, and 25 °C. The results showed that the inoculation of 106 cfu/mL of S.
xylosus completely inhibited the growth of most fungi. In addition, in the
presence of this strain at 104 cfu/mL, a significant reduction in fungal growth
and mycotoxins production was observed at the three temperatures studied. In
conclusion, S. xylosus Sx8 possesses great potential as a biological agent to
control toxigenic moulds in dry-cured meat products.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8060793 
PMCID: PMC7356353
PMID: 32466433 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

