
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Feb;103(2):1238-1249. doi: 10.3168/jds.2019-17496. Epub 2019
Dec 19.

PacBio sequencing reveals bacterial community diversity in cheeses collected from
different regions.

Yang C(1), Zhao F(1), Hou Q(1), Wang J(1), Li M(1), Sun Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Key Laboratory of Dairy
Products Processing, Inner Mongolia Agricultural University, Hohhot 010018, P. R.
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Key Laboratory of Dairy
Products Processing, Inner Mongolia Agricultural University, Hohhot 010018, P. R.
China. Electronic address: sunzhihong78@163.com.

Cheese is a fermented dairy product that is popular for its unique flavor and
nutritional value. Recent studies have shown that microorganisms in cheese play
an important role in the fermentation process and determine the quality of the
cheese. We collected 12 cheese samples from different regions and studied the
composition of their bacterial communities using PacBio small-molecule real-time 
sequencing (Pacific Biosciences, Menlo Park, CA). Our data revealed 144 bacterial
genera (including Lactobacillus, Streptococcus, Lactococcus, and Staphylococcus) 
and 217 bacterial species (including Lactococcus lactis, Streptococcus
thermophilus, Staphylococcus equorum, and Streptococcus uberis). We investigated 
the flavor quality of the cheese samples using an electronic nose system and we
found differences in flavor-quality indices among samples from different regions.
We found a clustering tendency based on flavor quality using principal component 
analysis. We found correlations between lactic acid bacteria and the flavor
quality of the cheese samples. Biodegradation and metabolism of xenobiotics, and 
lipid-metabolism-related pathways, were predicted to contribute to differences in
cheese flavor using Phylogenetic Investigation of Communities by Reconstruction
of Unobserved States (PICRUSt). This preliminary study explored the bacterial
communities in cheeses collected from different regions and their potential
genome functions from the perspective of flavor quality.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2019-17496 
PMID: 31864732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

