
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Oct;77(10):3147-3157. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02137-6. Epub 
2020 Jul 29.

Biodegradation and Kinetic Analysis of Acetaminophen with Co-culture of Bacterial
Strains Isolated from Sewage Wastewater.

Chopra S(1), Kumar D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and
Technology, Murthal, Sonepat, Haryana, 131039, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and
Technology, Murthal, Sonepat, Haryana, 131039, India. dkbiology@gmail.com.

Acetaminophen (paracetamol, APAP) is one of the fastest growing pharmaceutical
pollutants in the environment and has been classified under among the emerging
organic pollutants (EOPs). The increasing concentration of it in our environment 
is not only harmful to the ecosystem, but also to the humans as well. In this
study, the microscopy, biochemical test and 16S rRNA sequencing the
characterization of APAP as the sole degrading stains viz. Staphylococcus sciuri 
strain DPP1 (MN744326), Bacillus subtilis strain DPP3 (MN744327), Bacillus
paralicheniformis strain DKP1 (MN744324), Enterococcus faecium strain DKP2
(MN744325) and DDP2 (MT705211) were performed. Haldane's growth kinetic model was
used to identify specific growth rate and observed for DPP1 (485 mg/L), DPP3
(593 mg/L), DKP1 (477 mg/L), DKP2 (702 mg/L) and DDP2 (685 mg/L). The maximum
specific growth rate was reported for the stains viz. DPP1, DPP3, DKP1, DKP2, and
DDP2, was in order of 0.076, 0.223, 0.259, 0.179, and 0.141, respectively. The
Box-Behnken Design (BBD) was used to identify the effect of physical parameters
on degradation using mathematical modeling. The analysis of variance (ANOVA)
showed that the strains DPP1, DPP3, DKP1, DKP2, and DDP2 had significant F-value 
and regression coefficient (R2) value of 0.01%, 0.06%, 0.37%, and 0.18%,
respectively. The co-culture of the five strains has utilized 1200 mg/L of APAP
within 70 h while individual strains took 10 days. The intermediate metabolites
like 4-aminophenol, benzamide, (R)-2-methylpentanoic acid, methylene-3-vinyl
cyclohexane, and 1,5-hexadiene were identified by GC-MS. The degradation
metabolic pathway was predicted by the intermediates by GC-MS, and PathPred based
analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02137-6 
PMID: 32728793 

