
1. Sci Total Environ. 2020 Aug 20;753:141852. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.141852. 
[Epub ahead of print]

Bioaerosol emissions from activated sludge basins: Characterization, release, and
attenuation.

Burdsall AC(1), Xing Y(1), Cooper CW(1), Harper WF Jr(2).

Author information: 
(1)Air Force Institute of Technology, Environmental Engineering and Science
Program, Department of Systems Engineering and Management, 2950 Hobson Way,
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433, USA.
(2)Air Force Institute of Technology, Environmental Engineering and Science
Program, Department of Systems Engineering and Management, 2950 Hobson Way,
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433, USA. Electronic address: willie.harper@afit.edu.

This article presents a critical review of the peer-reviewed literature related
to bioaerosol generation from activated sludge basins. Characterization
techniques include a variety of culture- and nonculture-based techniques, each
with unique features. Bioaerosols contain a variety of clinical pathogens
including Staphylococcus saprophyticus, Clostridium perfringens, and Salmonella
enteritidis; exposure to these microorganisms increases human health risks.
Release mechanisms involve splashing and bubble burst dynamics. Larger bubbles
emit more aerosol particles than smaller ones. Attenuation strategies include
covering sources with lids, adjusting the method and intensity of aeration, and
using free-floating carrier media. Future studies should combine culture and
non-culture based methods, and expand chemical databases and spectral libraries
in order to realize the full power of real-time online monitoring.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.141852 
PMCID: PMC7439818
PMID: 32891995 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

