
1. Mater Sci Eng C Mater Biol Appl. 2020 Oct;115:111068. doi:
10.1016/j.msec.2020.111068. Epub 2020 May 11.

Biocompatible indocyanine green loaded PLA nanofibers for in situ antimicrobial
photodynamic therapy.

Preis E(1), Anders T(2), Širc J(3), Hobzova R(4), Cocarta AI(5), Bakowsky U(6),
Jedelská J(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics and Biopharmaceutics, University of Marburg,
Robert-Koch-Str. 4, 35037 Marburg, Germany. Electronic address:
eduard.preis@pharmazie.uni-marburg.de.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics and Biopharmaceutics, University of Marburg,
Robert-Koch-Str. 4, 35037 Marburg, Germany. Electronic address:
thomas.anders@pharmazie.uni-marburg.de.
(3)Institute of Macromolecular Chemistry, Czech Academy of Sciences, Heyrovského 
nám. 2, 162 06 Prague 6, Czech Republic. Electronic address: sirc@imc.cas.cz.
(4)Institute of Macromolecular Chemistry, Czech Academy of Sciences, Heyrovského 
nám. 2, 162 06 Prague 6, Czech Republic. Electronic address: hobzova@imc.cas.cz.
(5)Institute of Macromolecular Chemistry, Czech Academy of Sciences, Heyrovského 
nám. 2, 162 06 Prague 6, Czech Republic. Electronic address: cocarta@imc.cas.cz.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutics and Biopharmaceutics, University of Marburg,
Robert-Koch-Str. 4, 35037 Marburg, Germany.
(7)Department of Pharmaceutics and Biopharmaceutics, University of Marburg,
Robert-Koch-Str. 4, 35037 Marburg, Germany. Electronic address:
jarmila.jedelska@pharmazie.uni-marburg.de.

Chronic wounds and their associated bacterial infections are major issues in
modern health care systems. Therefore, antimicrobial resistance (AMR), treatment 
costs, and number of disability-adjusted life-years have gained more interest.
Recently, photodynamic therapy emerged as an effective approach against resistant
and naïve bacterial strains with a low probability of creating AMR. In this
study, needleless electrospinning was used to produce an indocyanine green (ICG) 
loaded poly(d,l-lactide) nanofibrous mesh as a photoresponsive wound dressing.
The non-woven mesh had a homogeneous nanofibrous structure and showed long-term
hydrolytic stability at different pH values. The antimicrobial activity was
tested against several bacterial strains, namely Staphylococcus saprophyticus
subsp. bovis, Escherichia coli DH5 alpha, and Staphylococcus aureus subsp.
aureus. Upon irradiation with a laser of a specific wavelength (λ = 810 nm), the 
bacterial viability was significantly reduced by 99.978% (3.66 log10), 99.699%
(2.52 log10), and 99.977% (3.64 log10), respectively. The nanofibrous mesh showed
good biocompatibility, which was confirmed by the proliferation of mouse
fibroblasts (L929) on the surface and into deeper parts of the mesh. Furthermore,
a favorable proangiogenic effect was observed in ovo using the chorioallantoic
membrane assay. In general, it can be concluded that ICG loaded nanofibers as an 
innovative wound dressing represent a promising strategy against chronic wounds
associated with skin infections.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msec.2020.111068 
PMID: 32600692 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

