
1. J Dairy Sci. 2019 Dec;102(12):11439-11448. doi: 10.3168/jds.2019-17028. Epub 2019
Sep 20.

Antimicrobial resistance and genetic characterization of coagulase-negative
staphylococci from bovine mastitis milk samples in Korea.

Kim SJ(1), Moon DC(1), Park SC(2), Kang HY(1), Na SH(1), Lim SK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Bacterial Disease Division, Animal and Plant Quarantine Agency, 177 Hyeksin
8-ro, Gimcheon-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do 39660, Republic of Korea.
(2)Laboratory of Veterinary Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics, College of
Veterinary Medicine, Kyungpook National University, Bukgu, Daegu 41566, Republic 
of Korea.
(3)Bacterial Disease Division, Animal and Plant Quarantine Agency, 177 Hyeksin
8-ro, Gimcheon-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do 39660, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
imsk0049@korea.kr.

Coagulase-negative staphylococci (CNS) are one of the most common bovine mastitis
pathogens found worldwide. In this study, we investigated the prevalence and
distribution of CNS species in mastitis milk samples and further characterized
the methicillin-resistant (MR) CNS. A total of 311 CNS were isolated from 3,692
quarter milk samples from 1,373 dairy cattle at 81 farms between 2013 and 2017.
Further evaluation of the CNS isolates revealed 14 CNS species among the samples 
and 3 predominant species-namely, Staphylococcus chromogenes, Staphylococcus
simulans, and Staphylococcus epidermidis. Resistance was higher in S. epidermidis
than in other CNS species except for resistance against oxacillin in
Staphylococcus sciuri. Resistance to β-lactams was the most common in all CNS
species (8.4% in ampicillin, 21.2% in oxacillin, and 13.5% in penicillin).
Conversely, only minimal resistance to cephalothin, ceftiofur, and
pirlimycin/novobiocin was found. Twenty-one isolates from 4 species were
mecA-carrying MRCNS strains, including 18 S. epidermidis and 1 each of S. sciuri,
Staphylococcus equorum, and Staphylococcus hominis. The majority of the
mecA-carrying MRCNS isolates were produced in the biofilm. Furthermore,
multidrug-resistant sequence type 179 isolate produced the strongest biofilm.
Seven genotypes were detected in the 18 MR S. epidermidis strains, the most
predominant of which persisted on a farm for 2 yr. Our findings for the
antimicrobial susceptibility profiles and genotypic characterization of the MRCNS
isolates could provide valuable information for controlling the spread of
resistance and the selection of appropriate antimicrobial therapies for mastitis 
in the future. Further, strategic antibiotic use for mastitis treatment and
hygienic management practices aimed at the prevention of the growth of resistant 
bacteria are urgently needed on dairy farms.

Copyright © 2019 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2019-17028 
PMID: 31548061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

