
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jul 19;8(7). pii: E1075. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8071075.

Taking Screenshots of the Invisible: A Study on Bacterial Contamination of Mobile
Phones from University Students of Healthcare Professions in Rome, Italy.

Cicciarella Modica D(1), Maurici M(2), D'Alò GL(2)(3), Mozzetti C(2), Messina
A(2), Distefano A(2), Pica F(4), De Filippis P(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Hygiene and Preventive Medicine, University of Rome Tor Vergata,
00133 Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Biomedicine and Prevention, University of Rome Tor Vergata,
00133 Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Lazio Regional Health Service, 00154 Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Rome Tor Vergata, 00133
Rome, Italy.

Mobile phones (MPs) are commonly used both in the personal and professional life.
We assessed microbiological contamination of MPs from 108 students in healthcare 
professions (HPs), in relation to their demographic characteristics and MPs
handling habits, collected by means of a questionnaire. Cultural and biochemical 
tests were performed, and statistical analyses were carried out. Staphylococci
were present in 85% of MPs, Enterococci in 37%, Coliforms in 6.5%; E. coli was
never detected. Staphylococcus epidermidis was the most frequently isolated
staphylococcal species (72% of MPs), followed by S. capitis (14%), S.
saprophyticus, S. warneri, S. xylosus (6%), and by S. aureus (4%). Heterotrophic 
Plate Counts (HPC) at 37 °C, ranged from 0 to 1.2 × 104 CFU/dm2 (mean = 362
CFU/dm2). In univariate analysis, the male gender only was significantly
associated with higher HPCs and enterococcal contamination. Multiple linear
regression models explained only 17% and 16% of the HPC 37 °C and staphylococcal 
load variability, respectively. Developing specific guidelines for a hygienic use
of MPs in clinical settings, for preventing cross-infection risks, is advisable, 
as well as introducing specific training programs to HP students. MPs
decontamination procedures could also be implemented in the community.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8071075 
PMCID: PMC7409191
PMID: 32707676 

