
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Aug;70(8):4637-4645. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004324.

Staphylococcus ursi sp. nov., a new member of the 'Staphylococcus intermedius
group' isolated from healthy black bears.

Perreten V(1), Kania SA(2), Bemis D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Veterinary Bacteriology, University of Bern, CH-3001 Bern,
Switzerland.
(2)Department of Biomedical and Diagnostic Sciences, University of Tennessee
College of Veterinary Medicine, Knoxville, Tennessee, USA.

Six Staphylococcus strains were isolated from healthy black bears (Ursus
americanus) in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, Tennessee, USA.
Phylogenetic analysis based on complete genome, 16S rRNA, dnaJ, hsp60, rpoB and
sodA genes, and MALDI-TOF-MS main spectral profiles revealed that the strains
belonged to one species and showed the closest relatedness to members of the
'Staphylococcus intermedius group' (SIG), which include Staphylococcus
intermedius, Staphylococcus pseudintermedius, Staphylococcus delphini and
Staphyloccoccus cornubiensis. The strains were positive in SIG-specific and
negative in individual species-specific PCR assays for the nuc gene. The strains 
can be differentiated from the other SIG species by the absence of sucrose
fermentation, from S. intermedius DSM 20373T, S. pseudintermedius CCUG 49543T and
S. cornubiensis DSM 105366T by the absence of methyl β-d-glucopyranoside
fermentation and from S. delphini DSM 20771T by fermentation of trehalose. DNA
relatedness of the type strain MI 10-1553T with the type strains of S. delphini, 
S. pseudintermedius, S. intermedius and S. cornubiensis was ≤48.2 % by digital
DNA-DNA hybridization and ≤92.3 % by average nucleotide identity calculations.
Iso-C15:0, anteiso-C15 : 0 and anteiso-C17 : 0 were the most common fatty acids. 
Polar lipids consisted of phosphadidylglycerols, phospholipids, glycolipid,
diphosphatidylglycerol and aminophospholipid. Cell-wall peptidoglycan was of type
A3α l-Lys-Gly3 (Ser; similar to A11.2 and A11.3). The respiratory quinone
belonged to menaquinone 7 (MK-7). The G+C content of MI 10-1553T was 39.3 mol%.
The isolated strains represent a novel species of the genus Staphylococcus, for
which we propose the name Staphylococcus ursi sp. nov. The type strain is MI
10-1553T (=ATCC TSD-55T=CCOS 1900T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004324 
PMID: 32672529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

