
1. J Bone Jt Infect. 2020 Mar 30;5(2):89-95. doi: 10.7150/jbji.42076. eCollection
2020.

Assessment of a Multiplex Serological Test for the Diagnosis of Prosthetic Joint 
Infection: a Prospective Multicentre Study.

Bémer P(1), Bourigault C(2), Jolivet-Gougeon A(3), Plouzeau-Jayle C(4), Lemarie
C(5), Chenouard R(5), Valentin AS(6), Bourdon S(7), Leroy AG(1), Corvec S(1);
Centre de Référence des Infections Ostéo-articulaires du Grand Ouest (CRIOGO)
Study Team.

Author information: 
(1)Bacteriology Department, CHU Nantes, Nantes Université, Nantes, France.
(2)Bacteriology and Infection Control Department, CHU Nantes, Nantes Université, 
Nantes, France.
(3)Bacteriology Department, INSERM, CHU Rennes, Rennes Université, Rennes,
France.
(4)Bacteriology Department, CHU Poitiers, Poitiers Université, Poitiers, France.
(5)Bacteriology Department, CHU Angers, Angers Université, Angers, France.
(6)Bacteriology Department, CHU Tours, Tours Université, Tours, France.
(7)Bacteriology Department, CH La Roche/Yon, La Roche/Yon, France.

Introduction: The diagnosis of prosthetic joint infections (PJIs) can be
difficult in the chronic stage and is based on clinical and paraclinical
evidence. A minimally invasive serological test against the main pathogens
encountered during PJI would distinguish PJI from mechanical loosening. Methods: 
We performed a prospective, multicentre, cross-sectional study to assess the
contribution of serology in the diagnosis of PJI. Over a 2-year period, all
patients undergoing prosthesis revision were included in the study. A C-reactive 
protein assay and a serological test specifically designed against 5 bacterial
species (Staphylococcus aureus, S. epidermidis, S. lugdunensis, Streptococcus
agalactiae, Cutibacterium acnes) were performed preoperatively. Five samples per 
patient were taken intraoperatively during surgery. The diagnosis of PJI was
based on clinical and bacteriological criteria according to guidelines. Results: 
Between November 2015 and November 2017, 115 patients were included, 49 for a
chronic PJI and 66 for a mechanical problem. Among patients with PJI, a sinus
tract was observed in 32.6% and a C-reactive protein level ≥10 mg/L in 74.5%. The
PJI was monomicrobial in 43 cases (targeted staphylococci, 24; S. agalactiae, 1; 
C. acnes, 2; others, 16), and polymicrobial in 6 cases (12.2%). Sensitivity,
specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value were 75.0%, 
82.1%, 58.3% and 90.8%, respectively, for targeted staphylococci.
Specificity/negative predictive value was 97.3%/100% for S. agalactiae and 83.8% 
/96.9% for C. acnes. Conclusions: The serological tests are insufficient to
affirm the diagnosis of PJI for the targeted bacteria. Nevertheless, the
excellent NPV may help clinicians to exclude PJI.

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/jbji.42076 
PMCID: PMC7242409
PMID: 32455099 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared
that no competing interest exists.

