
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 Aug 2;326:108653. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108653. Epub 2020 May 1.

Interaction in dual species biofilms between Staphylococcus xylosus and
Staphylococcus aureus.

Leroy S(1), Lebert I(2), Andant C(2), Talon R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Université Clermont Auvergne, INRAE, MEDIS, F-63000 Clermont-Ferrand, France. 
Electronic address: sabine.leroy@inrae.fr.
(2)Université Clermont Auvergne, INRAE, MEDIS, F-63000 Clermont-Ferrand, France.

Staphylococcus xylosus, a coagulase-negative Staphylococcus, is frequently
isolated from food products of animal origin and used as a starter culture in
these products in which it contributes to their flavour, while Staphylococcus
aureus, a coagulase-positive bacterium, causes foodborne intoxication and is
implicated in a broad diversity of infections in medical sector, notably in
nosocomial infections. S. xylosus and S. aureus are both capable of forming a
biofilm and share the same ecological niches, thus we explored their interaction 
in biofilms with a view to limiting the risks associated with S. aureus.
Cell-free supernatants of different strains of S. xylosus were able to inhibit
the biofilm formation of S. aureus. The S. xylosus C2a strain released into the
supernatant a molecule of molecular weight above 30 kDa that is resistant to
proteolytic enzymes and inhibits the formation of S. aureus MW2 biofilm, though
the mechanism involved has yet to be elucidated. Furthermore, S. xylosus C2a
modified the architecture of S. aureus MW2 in co-culture biofilm. Confocal laser 
scanning microscopy revealed that S. aureus formed a biofilm with a flat and
compact structure while in co-culture with S. xylosus the two species formed
large juxtaposed aggregates throughout the period of incubation. This
architecture made the S. aureus biofilm more susceptible to detachment.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2020.108653 
PMID: 32449679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

