
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Jun 12;10:274. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00274.
eCollection 2020.

Determining the Genetic Characteristics of Resistance and Virulence of the
"Epidermidis Cluster Group" Through Pan-Genome Analysis.

Sun Z(1)(2)(3), Zhou D(1)(3), Zhang X(1)(2)(3), Li Q(1)(2)(3), Lin H(1)(2)(3), Lu
W(1)(3), Liu H(1)(2)(3), Lu J(1)(3), Lin X(1)(3), Li K(1)(3), Xu T(4), Bao
Q(1)(3), Zhang H(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Medical Genetics of Zhejiang Province, Key Laboratory of
Laboratory Medicine, Ministry of Education, School of Laboratory Medicine and
Life Sciences, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China.
(2)The Second Affiliated Hospital and Yuying Children's Hospital, Wenzhou Medical
University, Wenzhou, China.
(3)Institute of Biomedical Informatics, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou,
China.
(4)Institute of Translational Medicine, Baotou Central Hospital, Baotou, China.

Staphylococcus caprae, Staphylococcus capitis, and Staphylococcus epidermidis
belong to the "Epidermidis Cluster Group" (ECG) and are generally opportunistic
pathogens. In this work, whole genome sequencing, molecular cloning and
pan-genome analysis were performed to investigate the genetic characteristics of 
the resistance, virulence and genome structures of 69 ECG strains, including a
clinical isolate (S. caprae SY333) obtained in this work. Two resistance genes
(blaZ and aadD2) encoded on the plasmids pSY333-41 and pSY333-45 of S. caprae
SY333 were confirmed to be functional. The bla region in ECG exhibited three
distinct structures, and these chromosome- and plasmid-encoded bla operons seemed
to follow two different evolutionary paths. Pan-genome analysis revealed their
pan-genomes tend to be "open." For the virulence-related factors, the genes
involved in primary attachment were observed almost exclusively in S.
epidermidis, while the genes associated with intercellular aggregation were
observed more frequently in S. caprae and S. capitis. The type VII secretion
system was present in all strains of S. caprae and some of S. epidermidis but not
in S. capitis. Moreover, the isd locus (iron regulated surface determinant) was
first found to be encoded on the genomes of S. caprae and S. capitis. These
findings suggested that the plasmid and chromosome encoded bla operons of ECG
species underwent different evolution paths, as well as they differed in the
abundance of virulence genes associated with adherence, invasion, secretion
system and immune evasion. Identification of isd loci in S. caprae and S. capitis
indicated their ability to acquire heme as nutrient iron during infection.

Copyright Â© 2020 Sun, Zhou, Zhang, Li, Lin, Lu, Liu, Lu, Lin, Li, Xu, Bao and
Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00274 
PMCID: PMC7303328
PMID: 32596166 

