
1. Cureus. 2020 Aug 14;12(8):e9735. doi: 10.7759/cureus.9735.

Exploring Antimicrobial Resistance in Agents Causing Urinary Tract Infections at 
a Tertiary Care Hospital in a Developing Country.

Rizvi ZA(1), Jamal AM(1), Malik AH(2), Zaidi SMJ(1), Abdul Rahim NU(2), Arshad
D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Surgery, Rawalpindi Medical University, Rawalpindi, PAK.
(2)Urology, Rawalpindi Medical University, Rawalpindi, PAK.

Background and objective Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are usually treated with
empirical therapy by physicians based on previous knowledge of the predictability
of causative agents and their antimicrobial susceptibilities. The objective of
this study was to determine the frequency of various pathogens causing UTIs and
their antimicrobial resistance profile in patients presenting to the outpatient
department (OPD) of a tertiary care hospital. Materials and methods This
descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted in the urology OPD of a tertiary 
care hospital in Pakistan. The study was conducted over a period of six months,
and it included 1,000 patients (of ages 12 years or above) who were clinically
suspected for UTIs. Patients with comorbidities and immunocompromised patients
were excluded from the study. Recipients of corticosteroid therapy or those with 
a history of intake of broad-spectrum antibiotics in the previous 15 days were
also excluded. The modified Kirby-Bauer disc diffusion method was used for
determining antimicrobial resistance against various antimicrobials. Results Out 
of 1,000 tested specimens, 530 (53%) isolates were found to be culture-positive. 
E.coli was the most common species isolated from the cultures with a prevalence
of 77.4%, followed by Klebsiella (6.4%), Enterobacter (6.0%), Pseudomonas (3.8%),
Staphylococcus saprophyticus (3.4%), Citrobacter (1.1%), and Morganella (0.4%).
Antimicrobial resistance against commonly used antimicrobials was found to be
alarmingly high. Conclusion E.coli was the most commonly isolated microorganism
from the urine samples of UTI patients. Antimicrobial resistance
against UTI-causing organisms is of great concern. The Surveillance of trends of 
antimicrobial susceptibility pattern for organisms causing UTIs is highly
important. Antibiotics should be prescribed according to proper guidelines to
prevent increasing antimicrobial resistance.

Copyright © 2020, Rizvi et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.9735 
PMCID: PMC7489772
PMID: 32944453 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

