
1. 3 Biotech. 2020 Oct;10(10):427. doi: 10.1007/s13205-020-02401-3. Epub 2020 Sep
11.

Efficacy of chelerythrine against dual-species biofilms of Staphylococcus aureus 
and Staphylococcus lugdunensis.

Qian W(1), Sun Z(1), Fu Y(1), Yang M(1), Wang T(1), Li Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Food Science and Bioengineering College, Shaanxi
University of Science and Technology, Xi'an, 710021 People's Republic of China.
(2)Ningbo Municipal Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Ningbo, 315010
People's Republic of China.

Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus lugdunensis are often associated with
pathogenic biofilms ranging from superficial mucosal to life-threatening systemic
infections. Recent studies have reported that chelerythrine (CHE) displays
antimicrobial activities against a few microorganisms, but its effects on
dual-species biofilms of S. aureus and S. lugdunensis have never been reported.
The purpose of this study was to investigate how dual-species biofilms of S.
aureus and S. lugdunensis respond when challenged with CHE. Minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) of CHE against planktic cells in dual-species culture was
8 μg/mL. CHE also suppressed dual-species biofilm formation at minimal biofilm
inhibitory concentration (MBIC90, 4 μg/mL). Further, confocal laser scanning
microscope (CLSM) using five fluorescent dyes revealed the dose-dependent
reduction of the levels of three key biofilm matrix components, and reduced
tolerance to gatifloxacin, of biofilms exposed to CHE. Moreover, CHE efficiently 
eradicated preformed dual-species biofilms at minimal biofilm eradication
concentration (MBEC, 256 μg/mL). Hence, CHE has the potential to address biofilm 
infections of clinical course and other biofilm-related diseases caused by S.
aureus and S. lugdunensis.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-020-02401-3 
PMCID: PMC7486358 [Available on 2021-10-01]
PMID: 32968612 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestThe authors declare that they
have no conflict of interest.

