
1. Molecules. 2020 Sep 22;25(18). pii: E4341. doi: 10.3390/molecules25184341.

Novel Bis-Ammonium Salts of Pyridoxine: Synthesis and Antimicrobial Properties.

Shtyrlin NV(1), Pugachev MV(1), Sapozhnikov SV(1), Garipov MR(1), Vafina RM(1),
Grishaev DY(1), Pavelyev RS(1), Kazakova RR(1), Agafonova MN(1), Iksanova AG(1), 
Lisovskaya SA(2), Zeldi MI(1), Krylova ES(1), Nikitina EV(1), Sabirova AE(1),
Kayumov AR(1), Shtyrlin YG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kazan (Volga region) Federal University, Scientific and Educational Center of 
Pharmaceutics, Kremlyovskaya St. 18, Kazan 420008, Russia.
(2)Kazan Scientific Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, Kazan
420015, Russia.

A series of 108 novel quaternary bis-ammonium pyridoxine derivatives carrying
various substituents at the quaternary nitrogen's and acetal carbon was
synthesized. Thirteen compounds exhibited antibacterial and antifungal activity
(minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) 0.25-16 Âµg/mL) comparable or superior
than miramistin, benzalkonium chloride, and chlorhexidine. A strong correlation
between the lipophilicity and antibacterial activity was found. The most active
compounds had logP values in the range of 1-3, while compounds with logP > 6 and 
logP < 0 were almost inactive. All active compounds demonstrated cytotoxicity
comparable with miramistin and chlorhexidine on HEK-293 cells and were three-fold
less toxic when compared to benzalkonium chloride. The antibacterial activity of 
leading compound 5c12 on biofilm-embedded Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus
epidermidis, Escherichia coli or Pseudomonas aeruginosa was comparable or even
higher than that of the benzalkonium chloride. In vivo 5c12was considerably less 
toxic (LD50 1705 mg/kg) than benzalkonium chloride, miramistine, and
chlorhexidine at oral administration on CD-1 mice. An aqueous solution of 5c12
(0.2%) was shown to be comparable to reference drugs efficiency on the rat's skin
model. The molecular target of 5c12 seems to be a cellular membrane as other
quaternary ammonium salts. The obtained results make the described quaternary
bis-ammonium pyridoxine derivatives promising and lead molecules in the
development of the new antiseptics with a broad spectrum of antimicrobial
activity.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25184341 
PMID: 32971844 

