
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Jun 3;10:259. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00259.
eCollection 2020.

High Levels of Oxidative Stress Create a Microenvironment That Significantly
Decreases the Diversity of the Microbiota in Diabetic Chronic Wounds and Promotes
Biofilm Formation.

Kim JH(1), Ruegger PR(2), Lebig EG(1), VanSchalkwyk S(3), Jeske DR(3), Hsiao
A(2), Borneman J(2), Martins-Green M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular, Cell and Systems Biology Department, University of California,
Riverside, Riverside, CA, United States.
(2)Microbiology and Plant Pathology Department, University of California,
Riverside, Riverside, CA, United States.
(3)Statistics Department, University of California, Riverside, Riverside, CA,
United States.

Diabetics chronic wounds are characterized by high levels of oxidative stress
(OS) and are often colonized by biofilm-forming bacteria that severely compromise
healing and can result in amputation. However, little is known about the role of 
skin microbiota in wound healing and chronic wound development. We hypothesized
that high OS levels lead to chronic wound development by promoting the
colonization of biofilm-forming bacteria over commensal/beneficial bacteria. To
test this hypothesis, we used our db/db -/- mouse model for chronic wounds where 
pathogenic biofilms develop naturally after induction of high OS immediately
after wounding. We sequenced the bacterial rRNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS)
gene of the wound microbiota from wound initiation to fully developed chronic
wounds. Indicator species analysis, which considers a species' fidelity and
specificity, was used to determine which bacterial species were strongly
associated with healing wounds or chronic wounds. We found that healing wounds
were colonized by a diverse and dynamic bacterial microbiome that never developed
biofilms even though biofilm-forming bacteria were present. Several clinically
relevant species that are present in human chronic wounds, such as Cutibacterium 
acnes, Achromobacter sp., Delftia sp., and Escherichia coli, were highly
associated with healing wounds. These bacteria may serve as bioindicators of
healing and may actively participate in the processes of wound healing and
preventing pathogenic bacteria from colonizing the wound. In contrast, chronic
wounds, which had high levels of OS, had low bacterial diversity and were
colonized by several clinically relevant, biofilm-forming bacteria such as
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterobacter cloacae, Corynebacterium frankenforstense,
and Acinetobacter sp. We observed unique population trends: for example, P.
aeruginosa associated with aggressive biofilm development, whereas Staphylococcus
xylosus was only present early after injury. These findings show that high levels
of OS in the wound significantly altered the bacterial wound microbiome,
decreasing diversity and promoting the colonization of bacteria from the skin
microbiota to form biofilm. In conclusion, bacteria associated with non-chronic
or chronic wounds could function as bioindicators of healing or non-healing
(chronicity), respectively. Moreover, a better understanding of bacterial
interactions between pathogenic and beneficial bacteria within an evolving
chronic wound microbiota may lead to better solutions for chronic wound
management.

Copyright Â© 2020 Kim, Ruegger, Lebig, VanSchalkwyk, Jeske, Hsiao, Borneman and
Martins-Green.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00259 
PMCID: PMC7283391
PMID: 32582564 

