
1. Chemosphere. 2020 Jul 17;261:127689. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2020.127689.
[Epub ahead of print]

Bacterial degradation of distillery wastewater pollutants and their metabolites
characterization and its toxicity evaluation by using Caenorhabditis elegans as
terrestrial test models.

Chowdhary P(1), Sammi SR(2), Pandey R(2), Kaithwas G(3), Raj A(4), Singh J(5),
Bharagava RN(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (A Central
University), Vidya Vihar, Raebareli Road, Lucknow, 226 025, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)Department of Microbial Technology and Nematology, CSIR-Central Institute of
Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP), Near Kukrail Picnic Spot, Lucknow, 226
015, UP, India.
(3)Dapartment of Pharmaceutical Sciences (DPS), Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar
University (A Central University), Vidya Vihar, Raebareli Road, Lucknow, 226 025,
Uttar Pradesh, India.
(4)Environmental Microbiology Laboratory, Environmental Toxicology Group,
CSIR-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (CSIR-IITR), Vishvigyan Bhavan 31,
Mahatma Gandhi, Lucknow, 226 001, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(5)Department of Environmental Science, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (A 
Central University), Vidya Vihar, Raebareli Road, Lucknow, 226 025, UP, India.
(6)Department of Microbiology, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (A Central
University), Vidya Vihar, Raebareli Road, Lucknow, 226 025, Uttar Pradesh, India.
Electronic address: bharagavarnbbau11@gmail.com.

Distillery wastewater has significant amount of coloring compounds and organic
substances even after the secondary treatment process, which poses many severe
environmental and health threats. However, the recalcitrant coloured compounds
have not yet been clearly identified. In this study, two bacterial strains DS3
and DS5 capable to decolorize distillery wastewater (DWW) pollutants were
isolated and characterized as Staphylococcus saprophyticus (MF182113) and
Alcaligenaceae sp. (MF182114), respectively. Results showed that mixed bacterial 
culture was found more effective decolorizing 71.83% DWW compared to axenic
culture DS3 and DS5 resulting only 47.94% and 50.67% decolorization,
respectively. The FT-IR and LC-MS/MS analysis of untreated DWW showed the
presence of many recalcitrant compounds having different functional groups, but
after bacterial treatment, most of compounds get diminished and the toxicity of
DWW was reduced significantly. Further, the Nile red staining of Caenorhabditis
elegans exposed to untreated and bacteria treated DWW for evaluation of toxicity 
assay and results revealed that the worms exposed to untreated DWW showed sharp
reduction in total fat content having more profound effects, suggesting the
diminished nAchR signaling as compare to bacterial treated DWW. Hence, this study
revealed that inadequate disposal of untreated DWW may cause transfer of toxic
substances into the environment and receiving water bodies.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2020.127689 
PMID: 32736242 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Authors declare
no conflict of interest.

