
1. Vet Dermatol. 2020 Sep 29. doi: 10.1111/vde.12885. [Epub ahead of print]

Characterization of staphylococcal communities on healthy and allergic feline
skin.

Older CE(1), Diesel AB(2), Starks JM(1), Lawhon SD(1), Rodrigues Hoffmann A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine &
Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, 77843, USA.
(2)Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine &
Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, 77843, USA.

BACKGROUND: Various Staphylococcus species have been demonstrated to play
important roles on the skin, including causing disease and protecting the host
from pathogens. Although culture-based studies have isolated various
Staphylococcus spp. from feline skin, very little is known regarding the
species-level communities on the host.
HYPOTHESIS/OBJECTIVES: To describe the species-level staphylococcal communities
inhabiting the skin of healthy cats and cats with allergic dermatitis.
ANIMALS: Skin swabs from the ear canal and groin of 11 healthy and 10 allergic
(nonlesional) cats were obtained.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: DNA was extracted from the skin swabs and used for
next-generation sequencing targeting the V1-3 region of the 16S rRNA gene.
Following a standard microbiota analysis of the sequencing data, species-level
assignment for the staphylococcal sequences were obtained using a
staphylococci-specific database.
RESULTS: Staphylococcus spp. had similar relative abundance in healthy and
allergic samples. The most abundant staphylococcal species were S. epidermidis in
healthy samples, and S. felis and S. capitis in allergic samples. The composition
of staphylococcal communities, as well as relative abundance of Staphylococcus
spp., was variable between body sites and individual cats sampled.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: These results demonstrate that diverse
staphylococcal communities inhabit the skin of healthy and allergic cats, and
provide a starting point for further research into the importance of
Staphylococcus spp. in feline allergic skin disease.

Publisher: Plusieurs espèces de Staphylococcus ont montré un rôle important dans 
la peau, dont la cause de maladies ou la protection de l’hôte des pathogènes.
Bien que les études basées sur les cultures aient permis d’isoler le nombreuses
Staphylococcus spp. de la peau de chat, on en sait très peu sur les niveaux
d’espèces de communautés de l’hôte. HYPOTHÈSES/OBJECTIFS: Décrire les communautés
staphylococciques de niveau d’espèce occupant la peau de chats sains et de chats 
avec dermatites allergiques.Des écouvillons cutanés des conduits auriculaires et 
du nez de 11 chats sains et 10 chats allergiques (non lésionnels) ont été
obtenus. MATÉRIELS ET MÉTHODES: L’ADN a été extrait d’écouvillons cutanés et
utilisés pour le séquençage de dernière génération ciblant la région V1-3 du gène
ARNr 16s. Suivant une analyse de microbiote standard des données de séquençage,
la désignation des niveaux d’espèce pour les séquences staphylococciques ont été 
obtenues à l’aide de données spécifiques de staphylocoques. RÉSULTATS:
Staphylococcus spp. était présent en quantité relative similaire pour les
échantillons sains et allergiques. Les espèces de staphylocoques les plus
abondantes étaient S. epidermidis dans les échantillons sains, et S. felis et S. 
capitis dans les échantillons allergiques. La composition des communautés de
staphylocoques, ainsi que la quantité relative de Staphylococcus spp., était
variable entre les sites corporels et entre les chats prélevés.Ces résultats
démontrent que les communautés de staphylocoques diverses occupent la peau de
chat sain et allergique et fournit un point de départ pour des recherches
supplémentaires sur l’importance de Staphylococcus spp. dans les dermatoses
allergiques félines.Publisher: INTRODUCCIÓN: se ha demostrado que varias especies
de Staphylococcus desempeñan papeles importantes en la piel, incluyendo causar
enfermedades y proteger al huésped de los patógenos. Aunque los estudios basados 
​​en cultivos han aislado varios Staphylococcus spp. de piel felina, se sabe muy 
poco sobre las comunidades a nivel de especie en el hospedador felino.
HIPÓTESIS/OBJETIVOS: describir las comunidades estafilocócicas a nivel de especie
que habitan la piel de gatos sanos y gatos con dermatitis alérgica. ANIMALES: se 
obtuvieron hisopos de piel del canal auditivo y de la ingle de 11 gatos sanos y
10 gatos alérgicos (sin lesiones). MÉTODOS Y MATERIALES: se extrajo el DNA de
hisopos de la piel y se usó en secuenciación de próxima generación dirigida a la 
región V1-3 del gen 16s rRNA. Después de un análisis estándar de microbiota de
los datos de secuenciación, se obtuvo la asignación a nivel de especie para las
secuencias estafilocócicas utilizando una base de datos específica de
estafilococos. RESULTADOS: Staphylococcus spp. tuvo abundancia relativa similar
en muestras sanas y alérgicas. Las especies de estafilococos más abundantes
fueron S. epidermidis en muestras sanas y S. felis y S. capitis en muestras
alérgicas. La composición de las comunidades de estafilococos, así como la
abundancia relativa de Staphylococcus spp., fue variable entre las zonas del
cuerpo y en los gatos individuales muestreados. CONCLUSIONES Y RELEVANCIA
CLÍNICA: estos resultados demuestran que diversas comunidades de estafilococos
habitan en la piel de gatos sanos y alérgicos, y proporcionan un punto de partida
para futuras investigaciones sobre la importancia de Staphylococcus spp. en la
enfermedad cutánea alérgica felina.Publisher: Es konnte gezeigt werden, dass
verschiedene Staphylococcus Spezies eine wichtige Rolle auf der Haut spielen, so 
verursachen sie auch Erkrankungen und schützen den Wirt vor Krankheitserregern.
Obwohl mittels Kultur-basierten Studien verschiedene Staphylococcus spp. von
Katzenhaut isoliert werden konnten, ist sehr wenig bekannt über die Spezies-Level
Arten auf dem Wirt.Die Beschreibung der Staphylokokken Spezies-Level Arten, die
die Haut gesunder Katzen und die Haut von Katzen mit allergischer Dermatitis
bewohnen.Es wurden Hauttupfer aus dem Ohrkanal und der Inguinalgegend von 11
gesunden und 10 allergischen (nicht-läsionalen) Katzen genommen.Es wurde DNA von 
den Hauttupfern extrahiert und für die Next-Generation Sequenzierung verwendet,
welche auf die V1-3 Region des 16s rRNA Gens abzielte. Nach einer Standard
Mikrobiota Analyse der Sequenzierungsdaten wurden Spezies-Level Zuordnungen der
Staphylokokken Sequenzen mittels einer Staphylokokken-spezifischen Datenbank
erzielt.Staphylococcus spp. zeigte eine ähnliche relative Häufigkeit bei gesunden
wie auch bei allergischen Proben. Die am häufigsten vorkommende Staphylokokken
Spezies waren S. epidermidis bei gesunden Proben und S. felis und S. capitis bei 
allergischen Proben. Die Zusammensetzung der Staphylokokken Arten sowie die
relative Menge an Staphylococcus spp. war zwischen den verschiedenen
Körperstellen und den individuellen Katzen, von denen Proben entnommen wurden,
unterschiedlich.Diese Ergebnisse zeigen, dass diverse Staphylokokkenarten die
Haut gesunder und allergischer Katzen bewohnen und stellen einen Ansatz für die
weitere Forschung über die Wichtigkeit der Staphylococcus spp. bei Katzen mit
allergischer Hauterkrankung dar.Publisher: Várias espécies de Staphylococcus têm 
demonstrado desempenhar papéis importantes na pele, incluindo causar doenças e
proteger o hospedeiro de patógenos. Embora estudos baseados em cultura tenham
isolado diversos Staphylococcus spp. da pele de felinos, muito pouco se sabe
sobre as comunidades em nível de espécie no hospedeiro. HIPÓTESE/OBJETIVOS:
Descrever as comunidades estafilocócicas em nível de espécie que habitam a pele
de gatos saudáveis e gatos com dermatite alérgica.Foram obtidos swabs de pele do 
conduto auditivo e virilha de 11 gatos saudáveis e 10 alérgicos (alesionais).
MÉTODOS E MATERIAIS: O DNA foi extraído dos swabs de pele e utilizado para o
sequenciamento de nova geração da região V1-3 do gene 16S rRNA. A partir uma
análise de dados de microbiota padronizada para dados de sequenciamento, a
atribuição em nível de espécie para as sequências estafilocócicas foi obtida
usando um banco de dados específico para estafilococos.Staphylococcus spp. teve
abundância relativa semelhante em amostras de gatos saudáveis e de alérgicos. As 
espécies estafilocócicas mais abundantes foram S. epidermidis em amostras de
saudáveis e S. felis e S. capitis em amostras de alérgicos. A composição das
comunidades estafilocócicas, bem como a abundância relativa de Staphylococcus
spp., foi variável entre os locais do corpo e individualmente entre os gatos
amostrados. CONCLUSÕES E RELEVÂNCIA CLÍNICA: Esses resultados demonstram que
diversas comunidades estafilocócicas habitam a pele de gatos saudáveis e
alérgicos e fornecem um ponto de partida para pesquisas futuras sobre a
importância de Staphylococcus spp. na dermatite alérgica felina.Publisher: 背景:
様々なブドウ球菌種が、疾患の発生や病原体からの宿主の保護など、皮膚に重要な役割を果たすことが実証されている。培養ベースの研究は、猫の皮膚から様々なブドウ球菌属を分
離しているが、宿主における種レベルのコミュニティについてはほとんど知られていない。 仮説/目的:
本研究の目的は、健常猫およびアレルギー性皮膚炎の猫の皮膚に生息する種レベルのブドウ球菌コミュニティについて説明することであった。 供試動物:
健常猫11頭およびアレルギー（非病変部位）猫11頭の外耳道および鼠径部の皮膚スワブを採取した。 材料と方法: 皮膚スワブからDNAを抽出し、16s
rRNA遺伝子のV1-3領域をターゲットとした次世代シーケンシングを使用した。シーケンスデータの標準的な微生物叢解析に続いて、ブドウ球菌固有のデータベースを使用し
、ブドウ球菌シーケンスに対する種レベルの割当を取得した。 結果:
ブドウ球菌属は健常およびアレルギーサンプルで同様の相対量を有していた。最も豊富なブドウ球菌種は、健常サンプルではS.
epidermidis、アレルギーサンプルではS. felisおよびS.
capitisであった。ブドウ球菌コミュニティの組成およびブドウ球菌属の相対量は、身体部位および採取した個々の猫間で変動した。 結論と臨床的関連性:
本研究結果は、様々なブドウ球菌コミュニティが健常およびアレルギー猫の皮膚に生息していることを示しており、猫のアレルギー性皮膚疾患におけるブドウ球菌属の重要性に関す
るさらなる研究の出発点を提供している。.Publisher: 背景:
已证实各种葡萄球菌在皮肤上发挥重要作用，包括引起疾病和保护宿主免受病原体的影响。尽管从猫皮肤分离培养的研究发现了各种葡萄球菌，但对该宿主身上菌种水平的群落仍知之甚
少。 假设/目的: 常驻在健康猫和过敏性皮炎猫皮肤上的葡萄球菌，对其菌种水平上的群落进行描述。 动物:
对11只健康猫和10只过敏（无病变）猫的耳道和腹股沟皮肤棉签采样。 方法和材料: 从皮肤棉签样本中提取DNA，使用针对16s
rRNA基因V1-3区的新一代测序。对测序数据进行标准微生物群分析后，利用葡萄球菌特异性数据库，获得菌种水平上的葡萄球菌序列。 结果:
健康和过敏猫的葡萄球菌相对丰度很相似。在健康样本的葡萄球菌中，丰度最高的菌种为表皮葡萄球菌，过敏样本中为猫链球菌和头葡萄球菌。葡萄球菌的群落组成，以及葡萄球菌的相
对丰度，在不同采样的身体部位和个体猫之间存在差异。 结论和临床相关性:
这些结果表明，健康和过敏猫皮肤上存在不同的葡萄球菌群落，并为猫过敏性皮肤病中的葡萄球菌，对其进一步研究的重要性提供了起点。.
© 2020 ESVD and ACVD.

DOI: 10.1111/vde.12885 
PMID: 32991044 

