
1. Int J Pharm. 2020 Sep 30:119930. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119930. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Fabrication of Large Pore Mesoporous Silica Microspheres by Salt-Assisted
Spray-Drying Method for Enhanced Antibacterial Activity and Pancreatic Cancer
Treatment.

Belbekhouche S(1), Poostforooshan J(2), Shaban M(3), Ferrara B(4), Alphonse V(5),
Cascone I(4), Bousserrhine N(5), Courty J(4), Weber AP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Chimie et des Matériaux Paris-Est, UMR 7182 CNRS-Université
Paris-Est Créteil, 94320 Thiais, France. Electronic address:
belbekhouche@icmpe.cnrs.fr.
(2)Institute of Particle Technology, Clausthal University of Technology, 38678
Clausthal Zellerfeld, Germany. Electronic address:
jalal.poostforooshan@tu-clausthal.de.
(3)Institute of Particle Technology, Clausthal University of Technology, 38678
Clausthal Zellerfeld, Germany.
(4)INSERM, U955, Immunoregulation and Biotherapy, F-94000 Créteil, France.
(5)Laboratoire Eau Environnement et Systèmes Urbains (LEESU),
Université-Paris-Est Créteil, 94010 Créteil Cedex, France.

Large-pore mesoporous silica (LPMS) microspheres with tunable pore size have
received intensive interest in the field of drug delivery due to their high
storage capacity and fast delivery rate of drugs. In this work, a facile
salt-assisted spray-drying method has been developed to fabricate LPMS
microspheres using continuous spray-drying of simple inorganic salts as pore
templates and colloidal SiO2 nanoparticles as building blocks, followed by
washing with water to remove the templates. More importantly, the porosity of the
LPMS microspheres can be finely tuned by adjusting the furnace temperature and
relative concentration of the salt to SiO2, which could lead to optimal
pharmaceutical outcomes. Then, the biological roles of these LPMS microspheres
were evaluated in antibacterial and cancer therapy. In this regard, rhodamine b
as a probe was initially loaded inside the LPMS microspheres. The obtained
particles not only showed high entrapment efficiency (up to 30%) and a
pH-responsive drug release but also presented pore-size-controlled drug release
performance. Then, in vitro antibacterial activities of multiple antibiotics,
namely nalidixic acid, chloramphenicol, and ciprofloxacin, loaded in the LPMS
particles were investigated against two pathogenic bacteria, Escherichia coli
(Gram-negative) and Staphylococcus aureus (Gram-positive). The results indicated 
bacterial inhibition up to 70% and 20% in less than 2 hours for Escherichia coli 
and Staphylococcus aureus, respectively. This inhibition of bacterial growth was 
accompanied by no bacterial regrowth within 30 h. Finally, the versatility of
LPMS microspheres as drug carriers in pancreatic cancer treatment was explored.
In this regard, a pro-apoptotic NCL antagonist agent (N6L) as an antitumor agent 
was successfully loaded onto LPMS microspheres. Interestingly, the resulting
particles showed pore-size-dependent anticancer activity with inhibition of
cancer cell growth up to 60%.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119930 
PMID: 33010394 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

