
1. Meat Sci. 2020 Mar;161:108022. doi: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2019.108022. Epub 2019 Nov 
27.

Theoretical basis of nitrosomyoglobin formation in a dry sausage model by
coagulase-negative staphylococci: Behavior and expression of nitric oxide
synthase.

Huang P(1), Xu B(1), Shao X(1), Chen C(1), Wang W(1), Li P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Engineering Research Center of Bio-process, Ministry of Education, Hefei
University of Technology, Hefei 230009, China; School of Food and Biological
Engineering, Hefei University of Technology, Hefei 230009, China.
(2)Engineering Research Center of Bio-process, Ministry of Education, Hefei
University of Technology, Hefei 230009, China; School of Food and Biological
Engineering, Hefei University of Technology, Hefei 230009, China. Electronic
address: lipeijun@hfut.edu.cn.

Three coagulase-negative staphylococci (CNS) species were investigated for gene
expression of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and the ability of nitrosomyoglobin
(NO-Mb) formation in a dry sausage model without nitrite addition. The expression
of nos gene was systematically proven from DNA to RNA to protein, and nitric
oxide (NO) generation was also directly detected. In the dry sausage model
system, the redness (a*-values) of samples inoculated with the three CNS species 
were higher than those inoculated with Pediococcus pentosaceus and the control
(P < 0.05). The results from UV-vis and electron spin resonance spectroscopies
revealed that pentacoordinate NO-Mb was formed in the sausages with either CNS or
nitrite added. The sausage inoculated with Staphylococcus vitulinus had the
highest NO-Mb content among the CNS-treated sausages. Dimer interface residues
and phosphorylation sites of NOS in . itulinus differ from the other two CNS
species as revealed by amino acid sequences, which may be responsible for the
different catalytic activities.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2019.108022 
PMID: 31838366 

