
1. Foods. 2020 Sep 22;9(9). pii: E1335. doi: 10.3390/foods9091335.

Susceptibility to Bacteriocins in Biofilm-Forming, Variable Staphylococci
Isolated from Local Slovak Ewes' Milk Lump Cheeses.

Lauková A(1), Pogány Simonová M(1), Focková V(1), Kološta M(2), Tomáška M(2),
Dvorožňáková E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Animal Physiology, Centre of Biosciences of the Slovak Academy of
Sciences, Šoltésovej 4-6, 040 01 Košice, Slovakia.
(2)Dairy Research Institute, a.s. Dlhá 95, 010 01 Žilina, Slovakia.
(3)Parasitological Institute of the Slovak Academy of Sciences, Hlinkova 3, 040
01 Košice, Slovakia.

Seventeen staphylococci isolated from 54 Slovak local lump cheeses made from
ewes' milk were taxonomically allotted to five species and three clusters/groups 
involving the following species: Staphylococcus aureus (5 strains),
Staphylococcus xylosus (3 strains), Staphylococcus equorum (one strain)
Staphylococcus succinus (5 strains) and Staphylococcus simulans (3 strains). Five
different species were determined. The aim of the study follows two lines: basic 
research in connection with staphylococci, and further possible application of
the bacteriocins. Identified staphylococci were mostly susceptible to antibiotics
(10 out of 14 antibiotics). Strains showed γ-hemolysis (meaning they did not form
hemolysis) except for S. aureus SAOS1/1 strain, which formed β-hemolysis. S.
aureus SAOS1/1 strain was also DNase positive as did S. aureus SAOS5/2 and
SAOS51/3. The other staphylococci were DNase negative. S. aureus SAOS1/1 and
SAOS51/3 showed biofilm formation on Congo red agar. However, using quantitative 
plate assay, 12 strains out of 17 showed low-grade biofilm formation (0.1 ≤ A570 
< 1), while five strains did not form biofilm (A570 < 0.1). The growth of all
strains, including those strains resistant to enterocins, was inhibited by nisin 
and gallidermin, with high inhibition activity resulting in the inhibition zone
in size from 1600 up to 102,400 AU/mL (arbitrary unit per milliliter). This study
contributes to microbiota colonization associated with raw ewe's milk lump
cheeses; it also indicates bacteriocin treatment benefit, which can be used in
prevention and/or elimination of staphylococci.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9091335 
PMID: 32971750 

