
1. Meat Sci. 2021 Jan;171:108277. doi: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2020.108277. Epub 2020 Aug 
11.

Physicochemical and microbiological characteristics of El-Guedid from meat of
different animal species.

Bader R(1), Becila S(2), Ruiz P(3), Djeghim F(4), Sanah I(1), Boudjellal A(1),
Gatellier P(5), Portanguen S(5), Talon R(3), Leroy S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Equipe MaQuaV, Laboratoire BioQuAI, Institut de Nutrition d'Alimentation et
des Technologies Agro-Alimentaires (INATAA), Université des Frères Mentouri
Constantine 1, 25000, Algeria.
(2)Equipe MaQuaV, Laboratoire BioQuAI, Institut de Nutrition d'Alimentation et
des Technologies Agro-Alimentaires (INATAA), Université des Frères Mentouri
Constantine 1, 25000, Algeria. Electronic address: samira.becila@umc.edu.dz.
(3)Université Clermont Auvergne, INRAE, MEDIS, Clermont-Ferrand 63000, France.
(4)Equipe Elaboration et Transformation de Produits Agro-Alimentaires (T.E.P.A.),
Laboratoire de Nutrition et Technologie Alimentaire (L.N.T.A.). INATAA, 25000,
Algeria.
(5)INRAE, UR370 Qualité des Produits Animaux, F-63122 Saint Genès-Champanelle,
France.

El-Guedid is an Algerian traditional meat-based product that is prepared from red
meats. It belongs to the wide diversity of salted/dried meat products. This study
described the physicochemical and microbiological properties of different
products from four animal origins and during all the conservation. Results
indicated that these products were mainly characterized by a low moisture with an
average decrease of water content between 15.6% and 16.3% for all the samples,
and a decrease in water activity ranging from 0.66 to 0.68, while the salt
content ranged from 8.8 to 19.3%. A decrease in pH values oscillated from
(6.3-6.4) to reach (5.2-5.5) at T0 and T365 consecutively, in all the samples.
Microbial analyses revealed the absence of pathogenic bacteria such as Listeria
and Salmonella but the sporadic contamination by Staphylococcus aureus up to one 
month of ripening. Lactic acid bacteria and coagulase negative staphylococci were
the dominant populations in El-Guedid with Leuconostoc mesenteroides,
Lactobacillus sakei, and Staphylococcus saprophyticus as the main species
identified. All these populations decreased along the process and reached low
levels (2 log CFU/g) at the end of storage (365 days). The drastic drying of
El-Guedid led to safe traditional meat product that could promote its production.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meatsci.2020.108277 
PMID: 32805642 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare no conflict of interests.

