
1. Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis. 2020 Aug 27. doi: 10.1089/vbz.2020.2656. [Epub ahead
of print]

The Nasal Carriage of Coagulase-Negative Staphylococci Among Animals and Its
Public Health Implication.

Abdel-Moein KA(1), Zaher HM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoonoses, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Cairo University,
Cairo, Egypt.

Background: The research scope toward nasal colonization of coagulase-negative
staphylococci (CoNS) in animals is largely ignored for many years. Therefore,
this study was conducted to investigate the nasal carriage of CoNS among
different animals and its public health implication. Materials and Methods: Nasal
swabs were gathered from 152 animals (36 cats, 31 dogs, 29 sheep, 32 goats, and
24 cattle). These samples were subjected for isolation and identification of CoNS
by conventional bacteriological methods, then molecular confirmation was carried 
out using Staphylococcus genus-specific 16S rRNA PCR. All CoNS isolates were
screened for the presence of antibiotic resistance (mecA and blaZ) and virulence 
(lukS/F-PV and tsst-1) genes. Moreover, strains carrying resistance and/or
virulence genes were identified to species level by 16S rRNA gene sequencing
approach. Results: CoNS were identified in 14.5% (22/152) of the examined
animals, whereas the prevalence rates among different animals were 27.8%, 3.2%,
8.3%, 10.3%, and 18.8% for cats, dogs, cattle, sheep, and goats, respectively. Of
all isolates, two strains (Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus warneri)
harbored mecA gene, which carried on staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec type 
I in S. epidermidis and type V in S. warneri, while blaZ gene has been found in
one strain (Staphylococcus felis). Importantly, two isolates (S. epidermidis and 
S. felis) had tsst-1 gene but all of CoNS isolates were negative for
Panton-Valentine leukocidin gene. The phylogenetic analysis of the obtained
sequences of CoNS of the current study revealed high similarity to those of
serious human clinical cases to underscore the public health significance of such
isolates. Conclusion: The nasal carriage of antibiotic-resistant and toxigenic
CoNS among different animals highlights the potential zoonotic link with great
public health implication.

DOI: 10.1089/vbz.2020.2656 
PMID: 32857680 

