
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 Jun 2;86(12). pii: e00306-20. doi:
10.1128/AEM.00306-20. Print 2020 Jun 2.

A Bottom-Up Approach To Develop a Synthetic Microbial Community Model:
Application for Efficient Reduced-Salt Broad Bean Paste Fermentation.

Jia Y(1), Niu CT(1), Lu ZM(2)(3), Zhang XJ(3), Chai LJ(3), Shi JS(4), Xu
ZH(1)(3), Li Q(2)(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, People's Republic of
China.
(2)School of Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, People's Republic of China
zmlu@jiangnan.edu.cn liqi@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(3)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology, Jiangnan
University, Wuxi, People's Republic of China.
(4)School of Pharmaceutical Science, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, People's Republic
of China.
(5)Synergetic Innovation Center of Jiangsu Modern Industrial Fermentation,
Jiangnan University, Wuxi, People's Republic of China.

Humans have used high salinity for the production of bean-based fermented foods
over thousands of years. Although high salinity can inhibit the growth of harmful
microbes and select functional microbiota in an open environment, it also affects
fermentation efficiency of bean-based fermented foods and has a negative impact
on people's health. Therefore, it is imperative to develop novel defined starter 
cultures for reduced-salt fermentation in a sterile environment. Here, we
explored the microbial assembly and function in the fermentation of traditional
Chinese broad bean paste with 12% salinity. The results revealed that the
salinity and microbial interactions together drove the dynamic of community and
pointed out that five dominant genera (Staphylococcus, Bacillus, Weissella,
Aspergillus, and Zygosaccharomyces) may play different key roles in different
fermentation stages. Then, core species were isolated from broad bean paste, and 
their salinity tolerance, interactions, and metabolic characteristics were
evaluated. The results provided an opportunity to validate in situ predictions
through in vitro dissection of microbial assembly and function. Last, we
reconstructed the synthetic microbial community with five strains (Aspergillus
oryzae, Bacillus subtilis, Staphylococcus gallinarum, Weissella confusa, and
Zygosaccharomyces rouxii) under different salinities and realized efficient
fermentation of broad bean paste for 6 weeks in a sterile environment with 6%
salinity. In general, this work provided a bottom-up approach for the development
of a simplified microbial community model with desired functions to improve the
fermentation efficiency of bean-based fermented foods by deconstructing and
reconstructing the microbial structure and function.IMPORTANCE Humans have
mastered high-salinity fermentation techniques for bean-based fermented product
preparation over thousands of years. High salinity was used to select the
functional microbiota and conducted food fermentation production with unique
flavor. Although a high-salinity environment is beneficial for suppressing
harmful microbes in the open fermentation environment, the fermentation
efficiency of functional microbes is partially inhibited. Therefore, application 
of defined starter cultures for reduced-salt fermentation in a sterile
environment is an alternative approach to improve the fermentation efficiency of 
bean-based fermented foods and guide the transformation of traditional industry. 
However, the assembly and function of self-organized microbiota in an open
fermentation environment are still unclear. This study provides a comprehensive
understanding of microbial function and the mechanism of community succession in 
a high-salinity environment during the fermentation of broad bean paste so as to 
reconstruct the microbial community and realize efficient fermentation of broad
bean paste in a sterile environment.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00306-20 
PMCID: PMC7267206 [Available on 2020-12-02]
PMID: 32303548 

