
1. Pathogens. 2020 Aug 14;9(8). pii: E654. doi: 10.3390/pathogens9080654.

Biofilm Formation Ability and Presence of Adhesion Genes among Coagulase-Negative
and Coagulase-Positive Staphylococci Isolates from Raw Cow's Milk.

Gajewska J(1), Chajęcka-Wierzchowska W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Industrial and Food Microbiology, University of Warmia and
Mazury in Olsztyn, Plac Cieszyński 1, 10-726 Olsztyn, Poland.

The capacity for biofilm formation is one of the crucial factors of
staphylococcal virulence. The occurrence of biofilm-forming staphylococci in raw 
milk may result in disturbances in technological processes in dairy factories as 
well as the contamination of finished food products. Therefore, this study aimed 
to determine the prevalence and characteristics of staphylococcal biofilm
formation in raw milk samples and to explore the genetic background associated
with biofilm formation in those isolates. The material subjected to testing
included 30 cow's milk samples acquired from farms in the central part of Poland.
A total of 54 staphylococcal strains were isolated from the samples, of which 42 
were classified as coagulase-negative (CoNS) staphylococci belonging to the
following species: S. haemolyticus, S. simulans, S. warneri, S. chromogenes, S.
hominis, S. sciuri, S. capitis, S. xylosus and S. saprophyticus, while 12 were
classified as S. aureus. The study examined the isolates' capacity for biofilm
formation and the staphylococcal capacity for slime production and determined the
presence of genetic determinants responsible for biofilm formation, i.e., the
icaA, icaD, bap and eno and, additionally, among coagulase-negative
staphylococci, i.e., the aap, bhp, fbe, embP and atlE. Each tested isolate
exhibited the capacity for biofilm formation, of which most of them (79.6%) were 
capable of forming a strong biofilm, while 5.6% formed a moderate biofilm, and
14.8% a weak biofilm. A capacity for slime production was demonstrated in 51.9%
isolates. Most of the tested staphylococcal strains (90.7%) had at least one of
the tested genes. Nearly half (47.6%) of the CoNS had the eno gene, while for S. 
aureus, the eno gene was demonstrated in 58.3% isolates. The frequency of the bap
gene occurrence was 23.8% and 25% in CoNS strains and S. aureus, respectively.
The fbe gene was demonstrated in only three CoNS isolates. The presence of the
icaA was only demonstrated in CoNS strains (24.1%), while the icaD was found in
both CoNS strains (21.4%) and S. aureus (100%). Among the CoNS, the presence of
the embP (16.7%), aap (28.6%) and atlE (23.8%) was demonstrated as well. The
obtained study results indicate that bacteria of the Staphylococcus spp. genus
have a strong potential to form a biofilm, which may pose a hazard to consumer
health.

DOI: 10.3390/pathogens9080654 
PMCID: PMC7460418
PMID: 32823918 

