
1. PLoS Pathog. 2020 Jan 23;16(1):e1008211. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1008211.
eCollection 2020 Jan.

Mobilizable antibiotic resistance genes are present in dust microbial
communities.

Ben Maamar S(1), Glawe AJ(1), Brown TK(1), Hellgeth N(1), Hu J(1), Wang JP(2),
Huttenhower C(3), Hartmann EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Northwestern University,
Evanston, Illinois, United States of America.
(2)Department of Statistics, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois, United 
States of America.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health,
Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.

The decades-long global trend of urbanization has led to a population that spends
increasing amounts of time indoors. Exposure to microbes in buildings, and
specifically in dust, is thus also increasing, and has been linked to various
health outcomes and to antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs). These are most
efficiently screened using DNA sequencing, but this method does not determine
which microbes are viable, nor does it reveal whether their ARGs can actually
disseminate to other microbes. We have thus performed the first study to: 1)
examine the potential for ARG dissemination in indoor dust microbial communities,
and 2) validate the presence of detected mobile ARGs in viable dust bacteria.
Specifically, we integrated 166 dust metagenomes from 43 different buildings.
Sequences were assembled, annotated, and screened for potential integrons,
transposons, plasmids, and associated ARGs. The same dust samples were further
investigated using cultivation and isolate genome and plasmid sequencing.
Potential ARGs were detected in dust isolate genomes, and we confirmed their
placement on mobile genetic elements using long-read sequencing. We found 183
ARGs, of which 52 were potentially mobile (associated with a putative plasmid,
transposon or integron). One dust isolate related to Staphylococcus equorum
proved to contain a plasmid carrying an ARG that was detected metagenomically and
confirmed through whole genome and plasmid sequencing. This study thus highlights
the power of combining cultivation with metagenomics to assess the risk of
potentially mobile ARGs for public health.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1008211 
PMCID: PMC6977718
PMID: 31971995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

