
1. Microb Drug Resist. 2020 Mar;26(3):251-260. doi: 10.1089/mdr.2019.0151. Epub 2019
Sep 24.

Antimicrobial Resistance Profiles and Molecular Characteristics of
Coagulase-Negative Staphylococci Isolated from Two Tertiary Hospitals Before and 
15 Years After Implementation of the Separation of Drug Prescribing and
Dispensing Policy of Korea.

Shin E(1), Hong H(1), Lee HJ(2), Lee Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Culture Collection of Antimicrobial Resistant Microbes, Department of
Horticulture, Biotechnology, and Landscape Architecture, College of Natural
Sciences, Seoul Women's University, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, School of Medicine, Kyung Hee University,
Seoul, Korea.

This study compared changes in antimicrobial susceptibilities and molecular
characteristics of coagulase-negative staphylococci (CNS) between the year 2000
and the year 2014-2015 to evaluate the policy of separating drug prescribing and 
dispensing in Korea. We obtained 68 CNS clinical isolates from two tertiary
general hospitals before (the year 2000; n = 25) and after (the year 2014 - 2015;
n = 43) implementation of the separation. Isolates were identified as
Staphylococcus capitis, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Staphylococcus haemolyticus, 
Staphylococcus hominis, Staphylococcus saprophyticus, and Staphylococcus warneri.
When minimal inhibitory concentrations of 14 antimicrobials were applied to
isolates, resistance rates to gentamicin and oxacillin in 2000 were significantly
higher than in 2014-2015 (p < 0.05). Fifty-seven isolates were
methicillin-resistant CNS (MR-CNS), 42 of which were also multidrug resistant;
overall, multidrug resistance decreased from 72% in the year 2000 to 55.8% in
2014-2015. Staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec) type III was the
dominant type of MR-CNS in the year 2000, while SCCmec type IV was the dominant
type in 2014-2015. Twenty-five sequence types (STs) were identified; ST2 appeared
most frequently in both periods. After 15 years of implementation of this policy,
multidrug resistance as well as methicillin and gentamicin resistance in CNS
decreased, but not resistance to other antibiotics. Long-term surveillance at
both genotypic and phenotypic levels of various species is necessary for further 
evaluation of this policy.

DOI: 10.1089/mdr.2019.0151 
PMID: 31549905 

