
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Aug 5;9(8). pii: E483. doi: 10.3390/antibiotics9080483.

Identification and Characterization of Quorum-Quenching Activity of
N-Acylhomoserine Lactonase from Coagulase-Negative Staphylococci.

Morohoshi T(1), Kamimura Y(1), Someya N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Material and Environmental Chemistry, Graduate School of
Engineering, Utsunomiya University, Utsunomiya 321-8585, Japan.
(2)Institute of Vegetable and Floriculture Science, National Agriculture and Food
Research Organization, 3-1-1 Kannondai, Ibaraki 305-8519, Japan.

N-Acylhomoserine lactones (AHLs) are used as quorum-sensing signals in
Gram-negative bacteria. Many genes encoding AHL-degrading enzymes have been
cloned and characterized in various microorganisms. Coagulase-negative
staphylococci (CNS) are present on the skin of animals and are considered
low-virulent species. The AHL-lactonase gene homologue, ahlS, was present in the 
genomes of the CNS strains Staphylococcus carnosus, Staphylococcus haemolyticus, 
Staphylococcus saprophyticus, and Staphylococcus sciuri. We cloned the candidate 
ahlS homologue from six CNS strains into the pBBR1MCS5 vector. AhlS from the CNS 
strains showed a higher degrading activity against AHLs with short acyl chains
compared to those with long acyl chains. AhlS from S. sciuri was expressed and
purified as a maltose-binding protein (MBP) fusion. Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an 
opportunistic pathogen that regulates several virulence factors such as elastase 
and pyocyanin by quorum-sensing systems. When MBP-AhlS was added to the culture
of P. aeruginosa PAO1, pyocyanin production and elastase activity were
substantially reduced compared to those in untreated PAO1. These results
demonstrate that the AHL-degrading activity of AhlS from the CNS strains can
inhibit quorum sensing in P. aeruginosa PAO1.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9080483 
PMCID: PMC7459623
PMID: 32764492 

