
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Sep;77(9):2265-2278. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02028-w. Epub
2020 May 28.

Mining Saline Soils to Manifest Plant Stress-Alleviating Halophilic Bacteria.

Nagaraju Y(1), Gundappagol RC(2), Mahadevaswamy(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Microbiology, University of Agricultural Sciences, 
Raichur, Karnataka, 584104, India. nagarajulvrth62@gmail.com.
(2)AICRP On Pigeon Pea, Kalaburagi, Karnataka, India.
(3)Department of Agricultural Microbiology, University of Agricultural Sciences, 
Raichur, Karnataka, 584104, India.

The connection between soil and microbes plays a critical role in soil health and
quality and can be elastic with the application of soil amendments and/or crop
rotations. Inappropriate management of soil and application of impermissible
levels of fertilizers ruptures the overriding connection between the soil and
microbes. This is currently evidenced in the degraded soils (i.e., saline soils
of India) which are caused by modern agricultural practices. Reclamation of
saline soils with a saturated package of practices and conventional breeding
methods requires biological intervention. Shortfall of nutrients is one of the
chief constraints for plant growth in salt-affected soils. In the present
investigation, we have observed an arsenal of fifty halophilic bacteria carrying 
an absolute requirement of 3% NaCl for solubilizing the insoluble minerals
(ZnCO3, ZnO, Mica and tri-calcium phosphate) under in vitro conditions; however, 
increasing the amount of NaCl over and above resulted in loss of solubilization
capacity. Of the isolates solubilizing zinc carbonate and zinc oxide at 3% NaCl
concentration, there were 29 isolates; at 10% concentration, 10 isolates were
positive for the presence of zinc carbonate. At 3% NaCl concentration, HB-5
showed 23.16 mm zinc carbonate solubilization, HB-20 showed 13.3 mm Zinc oxide
solubilization, and HB-7 showed 13.4 mm tri-calcium phosphate solubilization.
Mica solubilization was peaked at 6% NaCl and maximum solubilization was observed
in HB-27 (18.03 mm). When compared to the zinc carbonate solubilization, zinc
oxide solubilization was slow to reach desired levels. Solubilization lasted for 
up to 9 days and ceased thereafter in all the tests. Eight elite isolates were
identified as Bacillus albus, Bacillus safensis, Pseudomonas stutzeri (2),
Lysinibacillus sphaericus, Staphylococcus xylosus, and Bacillus cereus (2) based 
on 16S rRNA analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02028-w 
PMID: 32468180 

