
1. Food Sci Anim Resour. 2019 Dec;39(6):877-887. doi: 10.5851/kosfa.2019.e66. Epub
2019 Dec 31.

Effects of Six Different Starter Cultures on Mutagenicity and Biogenic Amine
Concentrations in Fermented Sausages Treated with Vitamins C and E.

Kim HS(1), Lee SY(2), Kang HJ(2), Joo ST(3), Hur SJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Life and Environment Science, Hankyong National
University, Anseong 17579, Korea.
(2)Department of Animal Science and Technology, Chung-Ang University, Anseong
17546, Korea.
(3)Institute of Agriculture & Life Science, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju
52828, Korea.

This study was performed to determine changes in mutagenicity and biogenic amine 
concentrations in sausages fermented with six different starter cultures treated 
with vitamins C and E. Six different types of fermented sausages with different
combination of starter cultures were manufactured. T1, Pediococcus acidilactici; 
T2, P. pentosaceus and Staphylococcus carnosus; T3, S. carnosus, S. xylosus,
Debaryomyces hansenii, Lactobacillus curvatus, and P. pentosaceus; T4, S.
carnosus and L. sakei; T5, S. xylosus and L. plantarum; and T6, Penicillium
nalgiovensis. After treatment with vitamins C and E in fermented sausages,
changes in mutagenicity and biogenic amine concentrations were measured. The
sausages fermented with Staphylococcus xylosus and Lactobacillus plantarum
starter cultures showed the most effective antimutagenic activity (p<0.05). The
mutagenicity was further decreased in the sausages treated with vitamins C and E 
(p<0.05), regardless of the starter cultures. The use of Pediococcus
acidilactici, S. xylosus, L. plantarum, and Penicillium nalgiovensis as starter
cultures was effective in decreasing biogenic amine concentrations (p<0.05). In
addition, vitamin E was more effective in decreasing the biogenic amine
concentrations than vitamin C. In conclusion, we recommend the use of S. xylosus 
and L. plantarum as starter cultures, in addition to the use of vitamins C and E,
to reduce the potential risk of meat mutagens in fermented sausages.

Â© Korean Society for Food Science of Animal Resources.

DOI: 10.5851/kosfa.2019.e66 
PMCID: PMC6949518
PMID: 31950105 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare no
potential conflict of interest.

