
1. Heliyon. 2020 May 18;6(5):e03965. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e03965. eCollection
2020 May.

Analysis of the microbial species, antimicrobial sensitivity and drug resistance 
in 2652 patients of nursing hospital.

Yang W(1), Ji X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Administration Department of Shanghai AIYIDE Gaoping Nursing hospital, No.847 
gaoping road, Jing an distinct, Shanghai, 200043, China.
(2)Ophthalmology Department of Shanghai East hospital, Tongji University School
of Medicine, No.1800 yuntai Road, Pudong distinct, Shanghai, 200123, China.

Objective: To understand the microbial species, antimicrobial sensitivity and
drug resistance of patients in the nursing hospital, to bring clinical guiding
significance to the use of antimicrobial in the nursing hospital.
Methods: A retrospective analysis of bacterial and drug sensitivity report of
2652 patients in nursing hospitals.
Results: There were 2652 cases of bacterial and drug sensitivity results,
including 1202 positive cases, 652 females accounted for 54.24%, and 550 males
accounted for 45.76%, concentrated in 70-99 years old. There were 57 kinds of
bacteria, 303 cases of Gram-positive bacteria accounted for 25.21%, 808 cases of 
Gram-negative bacteria accounted for 67.22%, and fungi accounted for 7.57%. The
positive samples were mainly from urine (35.94%) and sputum (48.59%). The main
Gram-positive bacteria in the positive samples were Staphylococcus aureus
(53.14%), Enterococcus faecalis (12.87%), Staphylococcus epidermidis (10.23%),
Staphylococcus haemolyticus (6.93%), Enterococcus faecium (3.96%). The main
Gram-negative bacteria in the positive samples were E. coli (35.27%), Pseudomonas
aeruginosa (20.67%), Klebsiella pneumoniae (13.99%), Proteus mirabilis (8.66%),
Bowman The main fungi in the positive samples of the bacillus (5.57%) were
Candida albicans (59.34%), Candida albicans (16.48%), and Candida glabrata
(14.29%). Among the Gram-positive bacteria, Enterococcus faecium and Enterococcus
faecalis are easily detected in urine. Staphylococcus haemolyticus and
Staphylococcus epidermidis are easily detected in sputum. Staphylococcus aureus
is easily detected in sputum and secretions. Among the Gram-negative bacteria, E.
coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae are easily detected in sputum and urine. Proteus
mirabilis is easily detected in the urine. Pseudomonas aeruginosa and
Acinetobacter baumannii are easily detected in sputum. Among the fungi, Candida
albicans, Candida bulgaricus, and Candida glabrata are easily detected in sputum.
There is a significant statistically difference in the distribution of P.
aeruginosa in all age groups. The resistance rate of Staphylococcus aureus to
levofloxacin and penicillin are above 90%, the resistance rate to clindamycin and
erythromycin are above 80%, the resistance rate to gentamicin is above 70%, and
vancomycin and linezolid The sensitivity rate of amine is 100.0%, the sensitivity
rate to rifampicin and teicoplanin are above 90%, and the sensitivity to compound
sulfamethoxazole and streptomycin are above 80%. Staphylococcus aureus resistant 
to vancomycin and linezolid are not found this time. The resistance rate of E.
coli to compound sulfamethoxazole is above 60%, the resistance rate to
cefuroxime, ceftriaxone, levofloxacin, and ciprofloxacin are above 70%, and the
resistance rate to cefazolin is above 80%. The resistance rate to ampicillin is
above 90%, the sensitivity rate to nitrofurantoin, minocycline and cefoxitin are 
above 60%, and the sensitivity to cefoperazone sulbactam and piperacillin
tazobactam is above 70%. The sensitivity rate of ropamine, imipenem and amikacin 
are above 80%. The resistance rate of Proteus mirabilis to nitrofurantoin is
100%, the resistance rate to ampicillin are above 90%, and the resistance rate to
compound sulfamethoxazole, levofloxacin and ciprofloxacin are above 80%. For
cefazolin and gentamicin The rate of resistance is above 70%. The sensitivity
rate to cefoxitin, imipenem and amikacin are above 80%, and the sensitivity to
meropenem, cefoperazone sulbactam, and piperacillin tazobactam are above 90%.
Klebsiella pneumoniae to cefazolin, gentamicin, ampicillin, cefuroxime,
ceftazidime, cefoxitin, ceftriaxone, ampicillin sulbactam, compound
sulfamethoxazole, levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin The drug resistance rate is above
60%, the sensitivity rate to amikacin is only above 60%, and the sensitivity rate
to imipenem and meropenem is only above 50%. Pseudomonas aeruginosa tested
resistance to antimicrobial is below 50%, sensitivity to ceftazidime, cefepime,
meropenem, imipenem, amikacin are above 60%, sensitivity to polymyxin B is above 
90%, the sensitivity rate of tigecycline is 100%. The resistance rate of Candida 
glabrata to fluorocytosine is above 60%, the sensitivity rate to amphotericin B, 
fluconazole and itraconazole are above 60%, and the sensitivity rate of
voriconazole is above 90%.
Conclusion: There is a difference between this data and the bacteria data in
Shanghai. It is necessary to understand the bacteria sensitivity rate and
resistance rate of antimicrobial in the nursing hospital, and it has certain
guiding significance for the clinical of the nursing hospital.

Â© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e03965 
PMCID: PMC7260137
PMID: 32490228 

