
1. Front Med (Lausanne). 2020 Jun 10;7:234. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2020.00234.
eCollection 2020.

Lytic Activity of Polyvalent Staphylococcal Bacteriophage PhiSA012 and Its
Endolysin Lys-PhiSA012 Against Antibiotic-Resistant Staphylococcal Clinical
Isolates From Canine Skin Infection Sites.

Nakamura T(1), Kitana J(1), Fujiki J(1), Takase M(2), Iyori K(3), Simoike K(3),
Iwano H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Veterinary Biochemistry, School of Veterinary Medicine, Rakuno
Gakuen University, Ebetsu, Japan.
(2)ELMS Animal Medical Center, Suginami City, Japan.
(3)Vet Derm Tokyo CO., Ltd., Fujisawa, Japan.

The spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria (ARB) in human and veterinary
medicine is of global concern. Notably, the emergence of methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus pseudintermedius has become a serious problem. In this context,
bacteriophages and their lytic enzymes, endolysins, have received considerable
attention as therapeutics for infectious diseases in place of antibiotics. The
aim of the present study was to investigate the antibiotic-resistance patterns of
staphylococcal species isolated from canine skin at a primary care animal
hospital in Tokyo, Japan and evaluate the lytic activity of the staphylococcal
bacteriophage phiSA012 and its endolysin Lys-phiSA012 against isolated
antibiotic-resistant staphylococcal strains. Forty clinical staphylococcal
samples were isolated from infection sites of dogs (20 from skin and 20 from the 
external ear canal). Susceptibility to antimicrobial agents was determined by a
disk diffusion method. The host range of phiSA012 was determined by using a spot 
test against staphylococcal isolates. Against staphylococcal isolates that showed
resistance toward five classes or more of antimicrobials, the lytic activity of
phiSA012 and Lys-phiSA012 was evaluated using a turbidity reduction assay.
Twenty-three S. pseudintermedius, 16 Staphylococcus schleiferi, and 1
Staphylococcus intermedius were detected from canine skin and ear infections, and
results revealed 43.5% methicillin resistance in S. pseudintermedius and 31.3% in
S. schleiferi. In addition, the prevalence multidrug resistance (MDR) S.
pseudintermedius was 65.2%. PhiSA012 could infect all staphylococcal isolates by 
spot testing, but showed little lytic activity by turbidity reduction assay
against MDR S. pseudintermedius isolates. On the other hand, Lys-phiSA012 showed 
lytic activity and reduced significantly the number of staphylococcal
colony-forming units. These results demonstrated that ARB issues underlying in
small animal hospital and proposed substitutes for antibiotics. Lys-phiSA012 has 
broader lytic activity than phiSA012 against staphylococcal isolates; therefore, 
Lys-phiSA012 is a more potential candidate therapeutic agent for several
staphylococcal infections including that of canine skin.

Copyright Â© 2020 Nakamura, Kitana, Fujiki, Takase, Iyori, Simoike and Iwano.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2020.00234 
PMCID: PMC7298730
PMID: 32587860 

