
1. Microbiol Res. 2020 Sep 25;242:126601. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126601. [Epub
ahead of print]

Sapindus mukorossi Gaertn. and its bioactive metabolite oleic acid impedes
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus biofilm formation by down regulating 
adhesion genes expression.

Selvaraj A(1), Valliammai A(1), Premika M(1), Priya A(1), Bhaskar JP(2), Krishnan
V(2), Pandian SK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Alagappa University, Karaikudi, 630 003, Tamil
Nadu, India.
(2)ITC, Life Sciences and Technology Centre, Bengaluru, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Alagappa University, Karaikudi, 630 003, Tamil
Nadu, India. Electronic address: pandiansk@gmail.com.

Plants are boon to the mankind due to plenty of metabolites with medicinal
values. Though plants have traditionally been used to treat various diseases,
their biological values are not completely explored yet. Sapindus mukorossi is
one such ethnobotanical plant identified for various biological activities. As
biofilm formation and biofilm mediated drug resistance of methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) have raised as serious global issue, search for
antibiofilm agents has gained greater importance. Notably, antibiofilm potential 
of S. mukorossi is still unexplored. The aim of the study is to explore the
effect of S. mukorossi methanolic extract (SMME) on MRSA biofilm formation and
adhesive molecules production. Significantly, SMME exhibited 82 % of biofilm
inhibition at 250 μg/mL without affecting the growth and microscopic analyses
evidenced the concentration dependent antibiofilm activity of SMME. In vitro
assays exhibited the reduction in slime, cell surface hydrophobicity,
autoaggregation, extracellular polysaccharides substance and extracellular DNA
synthesis upon SMME treatment. Further, qPCR analysis confirmed the ability of
SMME to interfere with the expression of adhesion genes associated with biofilm
formation such as icaA, icaD, fnbA, fnbB, clfA, cna, and altA. GC-MS analysis and
molecular docking study revealed that oleic acid is responsible for the
antibiofilm activity. FT-IR analysis validated the presence of oleic acid in
SMME. These results suggest that SMME can be used as a promising therapeutic
agent against MRSA biofilm-associated infections.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126601 
PMID: 33010587 

