
1. BMC Surg. 2020 Sep 14;20(1):200. doi: 10.1186/s12893-020-00860-2.

A rare lumbar pyogenic spondylodiscitis caused by staphylococcus caprae with
initial misdiagnosis: case report and literature review.

Fan Z(1), Yang Y(1), Li D(1), Fei Q(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Beijing Friendship Hospital, Capital Medical
University, No.95, Yong'an Road, Xicheng District, Beijing, 100050, China.
(2)Department of Orthopedics, Beijing Friendship Hospital, Capital Medical
University, No.95, Yong'an Road, Xicheng District, Beijing, 100050, China.
spinefei@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Staphylococcus caprae (Sc) is an uncommon causative organism for
human. Lumbar pyogenic spondylodiscitis (LPS) of Sc is extremely rare and only a 
few cases have been reported. As far as we know, there is no specific literature 
on the diagnosis and treatment for LPS of Sc with L5 nerve root irritation.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 65-year-old male patient complained of chronic low back pain
for 10Â years, acute worsening with radiating pain to left lower extremity over a 
month. Physical examination revealed tenderness point on his low back, 3/5
dorsiflexor strength in his left 1st toe and decreased sensation of pin prick
over the left lateral shank and medial dorsal foot. The individual was initially 
misdiagnosed with lumbar disc herniation (LDH) without further examination in
outpatient, which was then found to be LPS of Sc with L5 nerve root irritation
after admission to our hospital. Magnetic resonance images (MRI) of lumbar spine 
exhibited inflammation signal at L4-L5 level of the vertebral body and disc with 
hypointense on T1-weighted images (T1-WI) and hyperintense on T2-weighted images 
(T2-WI). The causative organism was confirmed by the culture of irrigation fluid 
obtained from L5 vertebrae by needle puncture. After systemic conservative
treatment including using sensitive antimicrobial agents and immobilization, the 
rare infection was finally cured. The patient also showed a satisfactory recovery
during the 36-month follow-up period.
CONCLUSIONS: Confirming the diagnosis and identifying the causative organism as
soon as possible is the key point for the treatment of LPS. LPS of Sc causing
nerve root irritation is rare but curable with early diagnosis and proper
therapy. The culture of irrigation fluid obtained from vertebrae by needle
puncture may be an effective and sensitive attempt for potential infection of
spine to identify the causative organism at early stage of the disease.

DOI: 10.1186/s12893-020-00860-2 
PMCID: PMC7491161
PMID: 32928168 

