
1. Food Sci Nutr. 2020 Jul 3;8(8):4172-4184. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.1711. eCollection
2020 Aug.

Application of isolated Lactobacillus sakei and Staphylococcus xylosus strains as
a probiotic starter culture during the industrial manufacture of Tunisian
dry-fermented sausages.

Najjari A(1), Boumaiza M(1), Jaballah S(1), Boudabous A(1), Ouzari HI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculté des Sciences de Tunis LR03ES03 Microorganismes et Biomolécules Actives
Université de Tunis El Manar Tunis Tunisia.

For decades, lactic acid bacteria has been isolated and selected to be used as
starter cultures in meat fermentation for standardization and management of
quality of dry-fermented sausage which constitute a considerable challenge. The
aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of Lactobacillus sakei strains,
isolated from different origins, on qualities of dry-fermented sausages. These
last, manufactured with different combinations of starter cultures
(L. sakei + Staphylococcus xylosus), were ripened, using the same raw materials
and conditions, for 45 days. Samples were collected during this period, and
microbiological, physicochemical, fatty acid profile, and sensorial analyses
determined. Lactic acid bacteria were the dominant flora during ripening. A
desirable PUFA/SFA ratio, corresponding to 1:1.7 (0.6), was detected after
24 days of maturation in sausages inoculated by L. sakei BMG 95 and S. xylosus.
Sensory analysis showed that fermented sausages manufactured with L. sakei and
S. xylosus had a more desirable odor, flavor, and texture and consequently were
preferred overall. In particular, sensory panellists preferred sausages produced 
with either L. sakei 23K or L. sakei BMG 95 when compared to fermented sausage
produced with a commercial starter or no starter at all.

© 2020 The Authors. Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.1711 
PMCID: PMC7455971
PMID: 32884698 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they do not have any
conflict of interest.

