
1. PLoS One. 2020 May 22;15(5):e0233363. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0233363.
eCollection 2020.

Whole genome sequence and comparative genome analyses of multi-resistant
Staphylococcus warneri GD01 isolated from a diseased pig in China.

Liu C(1), Zhao X(1), Xie H(1), Zhang X(1), Li K(1), Ma C(1), Fu Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Science and Engineering, Foshan University, Guangdong,
China.

Staphylococcus warneri is a coagulase-negative staphylococcus that is a normal
inhabitant of the skin. It is also considered to be an opportunistic etiological 
agent causing significant infections in human and animals. Currently, relatively 
little attention has been paid to the genome biology of S. warneri pathogenicity 
and antibiotic resistance, which are emerging issues for this etiological agent
with considerably clinical significance. In this study, we determined the
complete genome sequence of S. warneri strain GD01 recovered from the sampled
muscle abscess tissue of a diseased pig in South China. The genome of S. warneri 
is composed of a circular chromosome of 2,473,911 base pairs as well as eight
plasmid sequences. Genome-wide metabolic reconstruction revealed 82 intact
functional modules driving the catabolism of respiration and fermentation for
energy production, uptake of distinct sugars as well as two-component regulatory 
systems. The evidence uncovered herein enables better understanding for metabolic
potential and physiological traits of this etiological agent. The antibiotic
susceptibility test demonstrated that S. warneri GD01 was resistant to
penicillin, amoxicillin, ampicillin, cefalexin, vancomycin, and sulfisoxazole.
The associations between antibiotic phenotypes and the related genotypes were
identified to reveal the molecular basis conferring resistance to this pathogen. 
A number of genes coding for potential virulence factors were firstly depicted in
the genome of S. warneri GD01, including adhesins, exoenzymes, capsule, and iron 
acquisition proteins. Our study provides a valuable genomic context of the
genes/modules devoting to metabolism, antibiotic resistance, and virulence of S. 
warneri.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0233363 
PMCID: PMC7244159
PMID: 32442199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

