
1. Vet Dermatol. 2019 Dec;30(6):481-e142. doi: 10.1111/vde.12781. Epub 2019 Sep 5.

A pilot study on the comparative minimum inhibitory and mutant prevention
concentration values for moxifloxacin and pradofloxacin against canine and human 
isolates of Staphylococcus pseudintermedius and S. schleiferi.

Plowgian C(1), Blondeau JM(2)(3), Levinson M(4), Rosenkrantz W(4).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Dermatology Clinic, 3901 E 82nd St, Indianapolis, IN, 46250, USA.
(2)Division of Clinical Microbiology, Royal University Hospital and Saskatchewan 
Health Authority, 103 Hospital Drive, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada, S7N 0W8.
(3)Departments of Microbiology and Immunology, Pathology and Ophthalmology,
University of Saskatchewan, 103 Hospital Drive, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada, 
S7N 0W8.
(4)Animal Dermatology Clinic, 2965 Edinger Ave, Tustin, CA, 92780, USA.

BACKGROUND: Moxifloxacin is a fourth-generation fluoroquinolone (FQ) that is
approved for use in people to treat a variety of infections. Some veterinary
microbiology laboratories report moxifloxacin in culture and sensitivity profiles
for Staphylococcus pseudintermedius and S. schleiferi albeit using Clinical &
Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) breakpoints for S. aureus. Previous studies
have shown that S. aureus breakpoints can mischaracterize S. pseudintermedius
susceptibility to various drugs. Pradofloxacin is a third generation veterinary
FQ with a similar mechanism of action and spectrum of activity to moxifloxacin;
however, the dose format (25 mg/mL solution) available in the USA may limit its
practical use in large dogs.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC), mutant
prevention concentration (MPC) and mutant selection window (MSW) of moxifloxacin 
and pradofloxacin for isolates of S. pseudintermedius and S. schleiferi.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis was performed to
establish that each bacterial isolate selected for testing represented an unique 
strain. The MIC, MPC and MSW for moxifloxacin and pradofloxacin were determined
from 60 strains of S. pseudintermedius and seven strains of S. schleiferi.
RESULTS: The MIC and MPC ranges of moxifloxacin and pradofloxacin for
meticillin-susceptible S. pseudintermedius were similar. However, MIC and MPC
ranges were much wider and resistance to both drugs was more common for
meticillin-resistant strains of S. pseudintermedius and S. schleiferi.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE: The narrow MSW of these drugs may reduce the
risk of selecting for antibiotic-resistant subpopulations. Pharmacokinetic,
pharmacodynamic and safety studies are needed.

Publisher: La marbofloxacine est une fluoroquinolone de quatrième génération (FQ)
qui a été approuvée chez l'homme pour le traitement de diverses infections. Des
laboratoires de microbiologie vétérinaire rapportent les profils de sensibilité
pour la moxifloxacine dans les cultures de Staphylococcus pseudintermedius et S. 
schleiferi bien qu'ils utilisent les données du CLSI (Clinical & Laboratory
Standards Institute) de S. aureus. Des études précédentes ont montré que les
valeurs standard de S. aureus peuvent mal caractériser la sensibilité de S.
pseudintermedius à différentes molécules. La pradofloxacine est une FQ
vétérinaire de troisième génération avec des mécanismes identiques à l'action et 
au spectre de l'activité de la moxifloxacine; cependant, le format de dose
disponible aux Etats-Unis (solution de 25mg/mL) peut limiter son utilisation
pratique chez les grands chiens.Déterminer la concentration minimale inhibitrice 
(MIC), la concentration de prévention de mutant (MPC) et la fenêtre de sélection 
de mutant (MSW) de la moxifloxacine et la pradofloxacine pour les souches de S.
pseudintermedius et S. schleiferi. MATÉRIELS ET MÉTHODES: Une électrophorèse sur 
gel en champ pulsé a été réalisée pour établir que chaque isolat bactérien
sélectionné pour l'essai représentait une souche unique. Les MIC, MPC et MSW pour
la moxifloxacine et la pradofloxacine ont été déterminées pour 60 souches de S.
pseudintermedius et sept souches de S. schleiferi. RÉSULTATS: Les MIC et MPC de
moxifloxacine et pradofloxacine pour S. pseudintermedius sensibles à la
méticiline étaient semblables. Cependant, les MIC et MPC étaient plus larges et
la résistance aux deux molécules était plus fréquente pour les souches de S.
pseudintermedius et S. schleiferi résistantes à la méticiline.L’étroitesse des
MSW pour ces molécules peut réduire le risque de sélection pour les
sous-populations résistantes aux antibiotiques. Des études pharmacocinétiques,
pharmacodynamiques et d'innocuité sont nécessaires.Publisher: INTRODUCCIÓN: la
moxifloxacina es una fluoroquinolona (FQ) de cuarta generación que está aprobada 
para su uso en personas para tratar una variedad de infecciones. Algunos
laboratorios de microbiología veterinaria informan de la actividad de
moxifloxacina en los perfiles de cultivo y sensibilidad para Staphylococcus
pseudintermedius y S. schleiferi, aunque utilizando valores de corte del
Instituto de Normas Clínicas y de Laboratorio (CLSI) para S. aureus. Estudios
previos han demostrado que los valores de corte para S. aureus pueden llevar a
error en la caracterización de la susceptibilidad de S. pseudintermedius a varios
fármacos. La pradofloxacina es un FQ veterinario de tercera generación con un
mecanismo de acción y espectro de actividad similar al de la moxifloxacina; sin
embargo, el formato de dosificación (solución de 25 mg/ml) disponible en USA
puede limitar su uso práctico en perros grandes. OBJETIVO: determinar la
concentración inhibitoria mínima (MIC), la concentración de prevención de
mutantes (MPC) y la ventana de selección de mutantes (MSW) de moxifloxacina y
pradofloxacina para aislamientos de S. pseudintermedius y S. schleiferi. MÉTODOS 
Y MATERIALES: se realizó una electroforesis en gel de campo pulsado para
establecer que cada aislado bacteriano seleccionado para la prueba representaba
una cepa única. El MIC, MPC y MSW para moxifloxacina y pradofloxacina se
determinaron a partir de 60 cepas de S. pseudintermedius y siete cepas de S.
schleiferi. RESULTADOS: Los rangos de MIC y MPC de moxifloxacina y pradofloxacina
para S. pseudintermedius susceptibles a meticilina fueron similares. Sin embargo,
los rangos MIC y MPC fueron mucho más amplios y la resistencia a ambos fármacos
fue más común en las cepas resistentes a meticilina de S. pseudintermedius y S.
schleiferi. CONCLUSIONES E IMPORTANCIA CLÍNICA: la estrecha ventana de selección 
de mutantes para estos medicamentos puede reducir el riesgo de seleccionar
subpoblaciones resistentes a los antibióticos. Se necesitan estudios
farmacocinéticos, farmacodinámicos y de seguridad.Publisher: Moxifloxacin ist ein
Fluoroquinolon (FQ) der vierten Generation, welches für die Verwendung beim
Menschen für eine Reihe von Infektionen zugelassen ist. Einige
veterinärmikrobiologische Labors haben Moxifloxacin im Kultur- und
Antibiogrammprofil für Staphylococcus pseudintermedius und S. schleiferi, obwohl 
dafür nach dem Clinical & Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) der Breakpoint
für S. aureus verwendet wird. Frühere Studien haben gezeigt, dass die Breakpoints
von S. aureus die Empfindlichkeit von S. pseudintermedius auf verschiedene
Wirkstoffe verfälschen können. Pradofloxacin ist ein veterinärmedizinisches FQ
der dritten Generation mit einem ähnlichen Aktionsmechanismus und einem ähnlichen
Aktivitätsspektrum wie Moxifloxacin; allerdings dürfte die Verfügbarkeit der
Dosis (25 mg/mL), die in den USA zur Verfügung steht, den praktischen Einsatz bei
großen Hunden limitieren. ZIEL: Eine Bestimmung der minimalen
Hemmstoffkonzentration (MIC), eine Bestimmung der
Mutanten-Präventions-Konzentration (MPC) und ein Mutantenselektionsfenster (MSW) 
für Moxifloxacin und Pradofloxacin für Isolate von S. pseudintermedius und S.
schleiferi.Eine Pulsfeldgelelektrophorese wurde durchgeführt, um sicherzustellen,
dass jedes bakterielle Isolat, welches für den Test ausgewählt wurde, einen
einzigartigen Stamm repräsentierte. Es waren jedoch die MIC und MPC Reichweiten
viel breiter und die Resistenz gegenüber beiden Wirkstoffen bei
Methicillin-resistenten Stämmen von S. pseudintermedius und S. schleiferi
häufiger.Das enge MSW dieser Wirkstoffe könnte das Risiko reduzieren, auf
Antibiotika-resistente Subpopulationen zu selektieren. Pharmakokinetische,
pharmakodynamische und Sicherheitsstudien sind notwendig.Publisher: 背景:
モキシフロキサシンは、さまざまな感染症治療に対し人への使用が承認されている第4世代フルオロキノロン(FQ)である。一部の獣医微生物検査室では、S.
aureusの臨床・検査基準協会(CLSI)ブレークポイントを使用しているにも関わらず、Staphylococcus pseudintermediusおよびS. 
schleiferiの培養および感受性プロファイルにおけるモキシフロキサシンを報告している。以前の研究では、S.
aureusのブレークポイントがさまざまな薬物に対するS.
pseudintermediusの感受性を誤って特徴付けることが示されている。プラドフロキサシンは、モキシフロキサシンと同様の作用機序および活性範囲を持つ第三世代
の獣医領域FQである。ただし、米国で利用可能な用量形式(25 mg / mL溶液)により、大型犬での実際の使用が制限される場合がある。 目的:
本研究の目的は、S. pseudintermediusおよびS.
schleiferi分離株について、モキシフロキサシンおよびプラドフロキサシンの最小発育阻止濃度(MIC)、耐性菌出現阻止濃度(MPC)および耐性菌選抜域(MSW
)を決定することである。 材料と方法:
パルスフィールドゲル電気泳動を実施して、試験用に選択された各細菌分離株が固有株であることを確認した。モキシフロキサシンおよびプラドフロキサシンのMIC、MPCおよ
びMSWは、S. pseudintermedius60株およびS. schleiferi7株によって決定した。 結果: メチシリン感受性S.
pseudintermediusに対するモキシフロキサシンおよびプラドフロキサシンのMICおよびMPC範囲は類似していた。ただし、MICおよびMPCの範囲ははるか
に広く、両薬剤に対する耐性は、S. pseudintermediusおよびS. schleiferiのメチシリン耐性株でより一般的であった。 結論と臨床的重要性:
これらの薬物の狭いMSWは、抗生物質耐性亜集団を選択するリスクを軽減する可能性がある。薬物動態、薬力学、安全性の研究が必要である。.Publisher: 背景: 
莫西沙星是第四代氟喹诺酮(FQ),被批准用于治疗各种感染。一些兽医微生物学实验室使用临床与实验室标准规则(CLSI)中的金黄色葡萄球菌断点,报告莫西沙星对假中间型
葡萄球菌和施氏葡萄球菌的培养和敏感性。以往的研究表明,金黄色葡萄球菌的断点会误导假中间型葡萄球菌对各种药物的敏感性。普多沙星是第三代兽用FQ,与莫西沙星作用机制和
抗菌谱相似;然而,美国现有的包装剂量(25mg/ml溶液)可能会限制大型犬的临床应用。 目的:
测定莫西沙星和普多沙星对假中间型葡萄球菌和施氏葡萄球菌的最低抑菌浓度(MIC)、突变预防浓度(MPC)和突变选择窗(MSW)。 方法和材料:
进行脉冲场凝胶电泳,以确定每个入选测试的细菌代表了一个独特菌株。对60株假中间型葡萄球菌和7株施氏葡萄球菌的MIC、MPC和MSW进行测定。 结果:
莫西沙星和普多沙星对甲氧西林敏感的假中间型葡萄球菌的MIC和MPC范围相似。然而,对耐甲氧西林假中间型葡萄球菌和施氏葡萄球菌,这两种药物的MIC和MPC范围更宽且
耐药性更常见。 结论和临床意义: 这些药物的窄MSW可以降低耐药亚群的选择风险。需要进一步药代动力学、药效学和安全性研究。.Publisher: A
moxifloxacina é uma fluoroquinolona (FQ) de quarta geração aprovada para uso em
humanos no tratamento de diversas infecções. Alguns laboratórios de microbiologia
reportam moxifloxacina em culturas e perfis de sensibilidade para Staphylococcus 
pseudintermedius e S. schleiferi apesar de utilizarem os pontos de corte do
Clinical & Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) para S. aureus. Estudos
anteriores demonstraram que os pontos de corte de S. aureus podem
descaracterizara suscetibilidade de S. pseudintermedius a vários fármacos.
Pradofloxacina é uma FQ de terceira geração com mecanismo de ação e espectro de
atividade semelhante à moxifloxacina; entretanto, a formulação (solução de 25
mg/mL) disponível nos EUA pode limitar o seu uso em cães de grande
porte.Determinar a concentração inibitória mínima (MIC), concentração de
prevenção de mutantes (MPC) e a janela de seleção de mutantes (MSW) de
moxifloxacina e pradofloxacina para isolados de S. pseudintermedius e S.
schleiferi. MÉTODOS E MATERIAIS: Eletroforese em campo pulsante foi realizada
para estabelecer que cada isolado bacteriano selecionado para o teste
representasse uma cepa única. MIC, MPC e MSW para moxifloxacina e pradofloxacina 
foram determinadas com 60 cepas de S. pseudintermedius e sete cepas de S.
schleiferi.As faixas de MIC e MPC de moxifloxacina e pradofloxacina para S.
pseudintermedius suscetível a meticilina foram similares. Entretanto, as faixas
de MIC e MPC foram muito mais amplas e resistência aos dois fármacos foi comum
nas cepas resistentes à meticilina de S. pseudintermedius e S. schleiferi.
CONCLUSÕES E IMPORTÂNCIA CLÍNICA: A MSW estreita destas drogas pode reduzir o
risco de seleção de subpopulações resistentes a antibióticos. Estudos de
farmacocinética, farmacodinâmica e segurança são necessários.
© 2019 ESVD and ACVD.

DOI: 10.1111/vde.12781 
PMID: 31486554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

