
1. Food Res Int. 2020 Sep;135:109247. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109247. Epub 2020 
Apr 15.

Effect of Lactobacillus plantarum and Staphylococcus xylosus on flavour
development and bacterial communities in Chinese dry fermented sausages.

Xiao Y(1), Liu Y(2), Chen C(1), Xie T(3), Li P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Engineering Research Center of Bio-process, Ministry of Education, Hefei
University of Technology, Hefei 230009, Anhui Province, China; School of Food and
Biological Engineering, Hefei University of Technology, Hefei 230009, Anhui
Province, China.
(2)College of Food Science and Engineering, Northwest A&F University, Yangling
712100, Shaanxi Province, China.
(3)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Hefei University of Technology,
Hefei 230009, Anhui Province, China; Three Squirrel Co., LTD, Wuhu 241000, Anhui 
Province, China.
(4)Engineering Research Center of Bio-process, Ministry of Education, Hefei
University of Technology, Hefei 230009, Anhui Province, China; School of Food and
Biological Engineering, Hefei University of Technology, Hefei 230009, Anhui
Province, China. Electronic address: lipeijun@hfut.edu.cn.

The use of starter cultures helps to improve the quality and safety of
traditional meat products. In this study, the effects of Lactobacillus plantarum 
R2 and Staphylococcus xylosus A2 inoculation on microbial community, lipolysis,
proteolysis, and volatile compounds in Chinese dry fermented sausages were
investigated. Culture-dependent and culture-independent high-throughput
sequencing) methods were employed to evaluate the bacterial communities. Results 
showed that the total contents of free fatty acids (FFAs) and free amino acids
(FAAs) were increased by inoculating the starter cultures, especially a mixed
culture. A significant decrease in pH and water activity was observed in the
inoculated sausages (p < 0.05). Moreover, the inoculation treatment enhanced the 
competitiveness of dominant bacteria and inhibited the growth of unwanted
bacteria. This was beneficial to promote the release of FFAs and FAAs and to
prevent the formation of off-flavours and rancidity. Thus, the flavour
development in the inoculated dry fermented sausages was attributed to the
improvements in microbiological quality.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2020.109247 
PMID: 32527474 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

