
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Apr 27;8(5). pii: E629. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8050629.

Exploring Coagulase-Negative Staphylococci Diversity from Artisanal Llama
Sausages: Assessment of Technological and Safety Traits.

Rebecchi A(1)(2), Miragoli F(2), Lopez C(2), Bassi D(1)(2), Fontana C(3).

Author information: 
(1)DISTAS, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, via Emilia Parmense 84, 29122
Piacenza, Italy.
(2)Biotechnology Research Centre (CRB), via Milano 24, 26100 Cremona, Italy.
(3)Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria, Estación Experimental Famaillá,
Famaillá 4172, Tucumán, Argentina.

Llama sausage is still produced following artisanal procedures, with the
autochthonous microbiota being mainly responsible for the fermentation process.
In this work, the taxonomical identification and technological-safety criteria of
coagulase-negative staphylococci (CNS) isolated from two different productions of
llama sausages (P: pilot and A: artisanal) were investigated. Staphylococcus (S) 
equorum and S. saprophyticus were the species most frequently found in P
production, followed by S. succinis and S. warneri; a wider species variability
was observed in A factory being S. equorum, S. capitis, S. xylosus, S. pasteuri, 
S. epidermidis and S. saprophyticus as the main identified species. The
technological characterization of 28 CNS strains showed their ability to
hydrolyze gelatin and tributyrin together with a relevant nitrate reductase
activity. Phenotypic and genotypic approaches were conducted to investigate the
main safety traits. Llama's CNS strains exhibited weak decarboxylase and
hemolytic activity and low biofilm production; additionally, no enterotoxin genes
were detected. Correlation analysis between phenotypic and genotypic data showed 
low values for the biofilm parameters, while high correlation was observed for
oxacillin, ampicillin, tetracycline and aminoglycosides resistance and their
genetic determinants. Data obtained may contribute to broaden knowledge about the
autochthonous strains of this poorly studied fermented product, thus helping to
select an appropriate combination of potential starter cultures to improve llama 
sausage safety and quality.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8050629 
PMCID: PMC7284484
PMID: 32349211 

