
1. CEN Case Rep. 2020 Nov;9(4):370-374. doi: 10.1007/s13730-020-00488-4. Epub 2020
May 21.

Candida albicans and Staphylococcus lugdunensis superinfection of liver cysts in 
a patient with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease under prednisolone
treatment.

Iijima T(1), Suwabe T(1), Inui K(1), Mizuno H(1), Hiramatsu R(1), Yamanouchi
M(1), Sawa N(1), Takaichi K(1), Ubara Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nephrology, Nephrology Center, Toranomon Hospital Kajigaya,
Takatsu-ku Kajigaya 1-3-1, Kawasaki City, Kanagawa, 213-8587, Japan.
(2)Department of Nephrology, Nephrology Center, Toranomon Hospital Kajigaya,
Takatsu-ku Kajigaya 1-3-1, Kawasaki City, Kanagawa, 213-8587, Japan.
ubara@toranomon.gr.jp.

We report a case of superinfection of liver cysts caused by Candida albicans and 
Staphylococcus lugdunensis in a patient with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney
disease. A 69-year-old man with chief complaints of headache and blurred vision
was admitted to the former institution for the evaluation of suspected temporal
arteritis. He was prescribed oral prednisolone (55 mg/day) as a preemptive
treatment; however, he became febrile and presented with bilateral flank pain
during prednisolone tapering. Blood culture revealed fungemia as a result of
Candida famata infection; thus, micafungin treatment was started. Thereafter,
recrudescence of the C-reactive protein level ensued. Then a cyst infection as
visualized on magnetic resonance imaging led to cyst aspiration sclerotherapy.
Cyst aspirate culture revealed the presence of C. albicans in one of the cysts
and S. lugdunensis in two of the cysts. The patient was clinically stabilized
with an additional 3 weeks of antibiotic and antifungal drug administration.

DOI: 10.1007/s13730-020-00488-4 
PMCID: PMC7502095
PMID: 32440858 

