
1. Ann Agric Environ Med. 2019 Dec 19;26(4):555-565. doi: 10.26444/aaem/112381. Epub
2019 Sep 30.

Microbial contamination level and microbial diversity of occupational environment
in commercial and traditional dairy plants.

Stobnicka-Kupiec A(1), Gołofit-Szymczak M(1), Górny R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Labour Protection - National Research Institute, Warsaw,
Poland.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess microbial contamination of the air
and surfaces at workplaces in commercial (CD) and traditional (TD) dairies.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Bioaerosol (impactor) and surface (swab) samples were
collected in CD and in TD. Bacterial and fungal concentrations in the air and on 
surfaces were calculated and all isolated microorganisms taxonomically
identified, based on their morphological, biochemical and molecular features.
RESULTS: Average concentrations of bacterial aerosol ranged between 70-860
CFU/m<sup>3</sup> and 265-14639 CFU/m<sup>3</sup>, while for fungal aerosol were 
between 50-290 CFU/m<sup>3</sup> and 55-480 CFU/m<sup>3</sup> in CD and TD,
respectively. Average bacterial concentrations on surfaces ranged between
1.0-49.7 CFU/cm<sup>2</sup> and 0.2-60.4 CFU/cm<sup>2</sup>, whereas average
fungal surface contamination ranged between 0-2.7 CFU/cm<sup>2</sup> and 0-4.6
CFU/cm<sup>2</sup> in CD and TD, respectively. Qualitative analysis revealed
mainly the presence of saprophytic microorganisms; however, several pathogenic
strains (Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus intermedius, Clostridium
perfringens, Actinomyces spp., Streptomyces spp., Candida albicans) were also
isolated from both the air and surface samples in the studied dairies.
CONCLUSIONS: The air and surfaces in TD were more polluted than those in CD;
however, in both types of dairies, the levels of microbial contaminants did not
exceed respective threshold limit values. Nevertheless, the presence of
pathogenic microorganisms may increase health risk for dairy workers and
influence the quality of products. Hence, proper hygienic measures should be
introduced and performed to guarantee high microbial quality of both production
processes and milk products.

DOI: 10.26444/aaem/112381 
PMID: 31885228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

