
1. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2020 Oct;71(4):394-399. doi: 10.1111/lam.13342. Epub 2020
Jul 14.

Occurrence, antibiotic resistance and enteroxigenicity of Staphylococcus spp. in 
tonsils of slaughtered pigs in Greece.

Pexara A(1), Solomakos N(1), Govaris A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Hygiene of Foods of Animal Origin, Faculty of Veterinary
Science, University of Thessaly, Karditsa, Greece.

The aims of the present study were to examine the occurrence of Staphylococcus
spp. in the tonsils of slaughtered pigs in a regional slaughterhouse in Greece,
the antibiotic resistance of the Staphylococcus spp. isolates, and the
enteroxigenicity of the S. aureus isolates. Staphylococcus spp. were isolated in 
70 (48·61%) out of the total 144 tonsil samples. The predominant species was S.
aureus in coagulase-positive staphylococci (CoPS), while the predominant species 
were Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus saprophyticus in the
coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNS). Staphylococcus spp. isolates presented
high antibiotic resistance frequencies to tetracycline (97·1%) or clindamycin
(80·0%) and low antibiotic resistance frequencies to fusidic acid (14·3%). No
methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) strains were identified, and all
Staphylococcus spp. isolates were susceptible to vancomycin. Among the 26 S.
aureus isolates, 21 (80·76%) possessed staphylococcal enterotoxin genes with
seven different enterotoxin gene profiles. The predominant enterotoxin profile
was seg, sei and sej with seven S. aureus isolates. The occurrence of multidrug
resistant Staphylococcus spp. in pig tonsils indicate public health risk to pork 
consumers and handlers in developing antimicrobial resistance.

© 2020 Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.13342 
PMID: 32557652 

