
1. Curr Eye Res. 2019 Nov;44(11):1195-1202. doi: 10.1080/02713683.2019.1631852. Epub
2019 Jun 24.

Microbial Keratitis and Ocular Surface Disease: A 5-Year Study of the
Microbiology, Risk Factors and Clinical Outcomes in Sydney, Australia.

Khoo P(1), Cabrera-Aguas M(1), Robaei D(1)(2), Lahra MM(3)(4), Watson S(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)The University of Sydney, Save Sight Institute, Discipline of Ophthalmology,
Sydney Medical School, Sydney, Australia.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
(3)Microbiology Department, New South Wales Health Pathology, The Prince of Wales
Hospital, Randwick, Australia.
(4)School of Medical Sciences, The University of New South Wales, Sydney,
Australia.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Sydney Eye Hospital, Sydney, Australia.

Purpose: To report the microbiological and clinical profiles, and outcomes of
patients with microbial keratitis who had ocular surface disease (OSD) at the
Sydney Eye Hospital, Australia over a 5-year period.Methods: A retrospective
case-series study was conducted. Patients diagnosed with microbial keratitis who 
had a history of OSD (dry eye, blepharitis, Steven Johnson syndrome (SJS) and
ocular cicatricial pemphigoid (OCP)) from 1st January 2012 to 31st December 2016 
were identified from hospital coding and pathology data. Data were extracted from
the medical records.Results: 189 eyes from 171 patients with a mean age of 60 Â±
19 years (range 20-96 years) were included. OSD included blepharitis (79%), dry
eye (25%), SJS (4%) and OCP (2%). Coagulase-negative Staphylococcus (CoNS) (48%) 
were the most common isolated microorganism, made up of mostly Staphylococcus
epidermidis (n = 37, 48%), Staphylococcus capitis (n = 16, 21%), and
Staphylococcus warneri (n = 10, 13%). Median visual acuity at initial
presentation was 0.52 logMAR and 0.30 logMAR at final visit. Median healing time 
was 12 days (IQR 6-27). The most common initial antimicrobial treatment
prescribed was a combination of topical fortified cephalothin and gentamicin (n =
65, 34%); or topical ofloxacin (n = 56, 30%). Complications occurred in 69 eyes
(37%), mainly non or slow-healing epithelial defects (n = 53, 43%) or corneal
perforations (n = 24, 20%); and were more common in the elderly (n = 48/69,
70%).Conclusion: Microbial keratitis can affect those with OSD. In our setting,
CoNS were the main organisms identified. Furthermore, patients prescribed a
combination therapy of fortified antibiotics had poorer outcomes compared to
monotherapy fluoroquinolones.

DOI: 10.1080/02713683.2019.1631852 
PMID: 31189397 

