
1. Int J Pharm. 2020 Oct 1:119939. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119939. [Epub ahead
of print]

Influence of polysorbates (Tweens) on structural and antimicrobial properties for
microemulsions.

Guo L(1), Fang YQ(1), Liang XR(2), Xu YY(1), Chen J(1), Li YH(1), Fang S(1), Meng
YH(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Food Science and Biotechnology, Zhejiang Gongshang University, Hang 
zhou 310018, The People's Republic of China.
(2)College of pharmacy, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hang zhou 310018, The 
People's Republic of China.
(3)School of Food Science and Biotechnology, Zhejiang Gongshang University, Hang 
zhou 310018, The People's Republic of China. Electronic address:
myczjgsu@gmail.com.

Polysorbates (Tweens) are one of the most used excipients for essential oils
encapsulation. In this work, the polysorbate based microemulsions (PMEs) for
R-(+)-limonene (LMN) encapsulation were investigated for the structural and
antimicrobial properties. PMEs were constructed using the pseudoternary phase
diagrams, and then characterized for electrical conductivity, rheology, size
distribution and particle geometry. Conductivity and rheological measurement
results showed that Tween 80 and Tween 60 based microemulsions have identical
phase transitions. Dynamic light scattering demonstrated that hydrodynamic
diameters of oil-in-water microemulsions decreased from 30 nm to 25 nm during the
dilution, while small-angle X-ray scattering indicated that their spherical
geometries were maintained. PMEs exhibited enhanced antimicrobial efficiencies in
vitro against Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Pseudomonas
aeruginosa. Interestingly, when Tween 80 was replaced by Tween 60, PME was
observed more effective against S. aureus. The two PMEs structural analogues
exhibited different antimicrobial efficiencies corresponding to the bioactivity
of polysorbates. In conclusion, PMEs can be considered as a desirable system for 
LMN encapsulation to enhance its solubility and antimicrobial efficiency.
Furthermore, the difference in the antimicrobial efficiency suggested that the
choice of emulsifiers should be concerned to improve further applications.

Copyright Â© 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119939 
PMID: 33011247 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

