
1. Curr Microbiol. 2020 Oct;77(10):3095-3103. doi: 10.1007/s00284-020-02115-y. Epub 
2020 Jul 26.

Plasmid-Mediated Biodegradation of Chlorpyrifos and Analysis of Its Metabolic
By-Products.

John EM(1), Varghese EM(1), Shaike JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biosciences, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, Kerala, 686560,
India.
(2)School of Biosciences, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, Kerala, 686560,
India. jishams@mgu.ac.in.

Organophosphate pesticide persistence is an emerging menace to the environment
and despite this fact, its use has been enhanced due to its high efficiency.
Bioremediation using microorganisms would be the only means by which these
hazardous compounds could be wiped out without disturbing the environmental
harmony. The current work studied the molecular mechanism of degradation of
Chlorpyrifos (CP) by a bacterial consortium C5 comprising of three soil isolates 
Staphylococcus warneri (CPI 2), Pseudomonas putida (CPI 9) and Stenotrophomonas
maltophilia (CPI 15), which unveiled that the property is plasmid borne. All the 
isolates were found to possess a 4 kb plasmid which could be cured only by using 
sodium azide. The Escherichia coli JM109 cells when transformed individually with
the plasmid of the isolates showed CP degradation in mineral salts medium (MSM)
that contained CP as the sole carbon source. The degradative enzyme
organophosphorus hydrolase (~ 60 KDa) of the isolates was extracted and purified 
to 31.85, 26 and 37.74 fold, respectively. The possible metabolic by-products of 
CP degradation by the consortium C5, were also analysed. The LC-Q-Tof MS analysis
revealed the presence of the major metabolite 3, 5, 6 -trichloropyridine (TCP)
with the formation of chlorpyrifos oxon as the intermediate. The isolates also
showed trichloropyridine degradation (> 80%) individually in MSM-TCP medium
proving its efficiency to remediate both CP and TCP.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-020-02115-y 
PMID: 32715316 

