
1. J Food Prot. 2020 Sep 11. doi: 10.4315/JFP-20-271. [Epub ahead of print]

Microbiological quality of high-demand foods from three major cities in Ecuador.

Salazar-Llorente E, Morales M, Sornoza I, Mariduena-Zavala M, Gu G, Nou X, Ortiz 
J, Maldonado-Alvarado P, Cevallos-Cevallos J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Escuela Superior Politecnica del Litoral Km 30.5 via perimetral ECUADOR
Guayaquil nocode.

Bacterial foodborne diseases are one of the most important public health issues
worldwide but in Ecuador reports on the microbiological quality of foods are
scarce. In this cross-sectional study, a total of 450 samples of high-demand
Ecuadorian food, including bolon, encebollado, sauces, ceviche, fruits, fruit
juices, fruit salads, cheese, raw chicken and ground beef were collected from
popular street markets in the cities of Guayaquil, Quito and Cuenca. Populations 
of total aerobic mesophilic bacteria (TAM), total coliforms (TC), fecal coliforms
(FC), Escherichia coli (EC), Salmonella enterica and Listeria monocytogenes were 
examined on composited samples by plate count following the local regulations
(Norma Tecnica Ecuatoriana - INEN) for each kind of food. The individual and
interaction effects of the city and food type on the levels of each bacterial
group was assessed by two-way ANOVA. Selected colonies from each culture were
identified using Biolog OmniLog ID and sequencing of the V3-V4 region on the 16S 
rRNA gene. Average TAM, TC, FC and EC levels were 5.10 ± 0.12, 2.50 ± 0.16, 1.09 
± 0.12 and 0.83 ± 0.12 log CFU/g or mL, respectively, with significant variations
among the cities. The prevalence of Salmonella in chicken and sauces as well as
L. monocytogenes in cheese and fruit salad was greater than 20 %.  Opportunistic 
pathogens including Klebsiella pneumoniae, Staphylococcus sciuri, and
Enterococcus spp. were frequently identified in the samples from all three
cities. High prevalence of spoilage microorganisms such as Bacillus
amyloliquefaciens and biocontrol bacteria such as Lactococcus lactis was also
observed. This is the first report on the microbiological quality of food from
Ecuador.

DOI: 10.4315/JFP-20-271 
PMID: 32916699 

