
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Aug;89:103434. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103434. Epub 2020 Jan 
21.

Raw meat quality and salt levels affect the bacterial species diversity and
community dynamics during the fermentation of pork mince.

Charmpi C(1), Van der Veken D(1), Van Reckem E(1), De Vuyst L(1), Leroy F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Research Group of Industrial Microbiology and Food Biotechnology (IMDO),
Faculty of Sciences and Bioengineering Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Brussel,
Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Research Group of Industrial Microbiology and Food Biotechnology (IMDO),
Faculty of Sciences and Bioengineering Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Brussel,
Brussels, Belgium. Electronic address: frederic.leroy@vub.be.

Acidification level and temperature modulate the beneficial consortia of lactic
acid bacteria (LAB) and coagulase-negative staphylococci (CNS) during meat
fermentation. Less is known about the impact of other factors, such as raw meat
quality and salting. These could for instance affect the growth of the pathogen
Staphylococcus aureus or of Enterobacterales species, potentially indicative of
poor fermentation practice. Therefore, pork batters from either normal or
borderline quality (dark-firm-dry, DFD) were compared at various salt
concentrations (0-4%) in meat fermentation models. Microbial ecology of the
samples was investigated with culture-dependent techniques and (GTG)5-PCR
fingerprinting of genomic DNA. Whilst Lactobacillus sakei governed the
fermentation of normal meat, Lactobacillus curvatus was more prominent in the
fermentation of the DFD meat variant. CNS were favoured during fermentation at
rising salt concentrations without much effects on species diversity, consisting 
mostly of Staphylococcus equorum, Staphylococcus saprophyticus, and
Staphylococcus xylosus. During fermentation of DFD meat, S. saprophyticus was
less manifest than during that of normal meat. Enterobacterales mainly emerged in
DFD meat during fermentation at low salt concentrations. The salt hurdle was
insufficient to prevent Enterobacterales when acidification and initial pH were
favourable for their growth.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103434 
PMID: 32138992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations of competing interest None.

