
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Oct;147:104259. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104259. Epub 2020
May 22.

Staphylococcus xylosus VITURAJ10: Pyrrolo [1,2α] pyrazine-1,4-dione,
hexahydro-3-(2-methylpropyl) (PPDHMP) producing, potential probiotic strain with 
antibacterial and anticancer activity.

Mangrolia U(1), Osborne WJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Bio Sciences and Technology, Vellore Institute of Technology,
Vellore, 632014, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)School of Bio Sciences and Technology, Vellore Institute of Technology,
Vellore, 632014, Tamil Nadu, India. Electronic address: jabez.vit@gmail.com.

In the present study bacterial strain (VITURAJ10), isolated from goat milk was
characterised for its probiotic potential. The various probiotic traits included 
tolerance to acidic pH (up to pH 3), bile salts (0.3%) and transit gut
environment (simulated with digestive juices such as pepsin, Oxgall and
pancreatin). The isolate could withstand high NaCl concentrations in the growth
medium, showed inability to produce hemolysin and did not hydrolyse mucin.
VITURAJ10 was capable of forming biofilm and produced exopolysachharide. The
bioactive metabolites produced by the isolate were extracted and they showed
growth suppressing activity towards pathogenic strains such as Escherichia coli, 
Salmonella enterica and Staphylococcus aureus. The crude extract was fractionated
with solid phase extraction (SPE) chromatography and the fractions 10 and 12 were
found to be effective against the bacterial pathogens. The fractions were further
gauged for cytotoxic activity against MCF-7 cell line by MTT assay. The
biologically significant compounds identified through GC-MS and FT-IR analysis in
the fractions were, Actinomycin D, Pyrrolo [1,2α] Pyrazine-1,4-Dione,
Hexahydro-3-(2-Methylpropyl)- (PPDHMP) and Didemnin B. The phylogenetic taxonomy 
of the isolate revealed the isolate to be the closest neighbour of Staphylococcus
xylosus VITURAJ10 (GenBank accession no. KX770743.1) as per the16S rRNA gene
sequencing and subsequent phylogenetic tree analysis.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104259 
PMID: 32446871 

