
1. Heliyon. 2020 Apr 20;6(4):e03700. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e03700. eCollection
2020 Apr.

Simultaneous profiling and cultivation of the skin microbiome of healthy young
adult skin for the development of therapeutic agents.

Khayyira AS(1), Rosdina AE(1), Irianti MI(1), Malik A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pharmaceutical Microbiology and Biotechnology, Faculty of
Pharmacy, Universitas Indonesia, 16424, Depok, Indonesia.

Background: Studies on the impact of the skin microbiota on human health have
been gaining more attention. Bacteria are associated with various diseases,
although certain strains of bacteria, which are known as probiotics, are
considered beneficial. Mixtures of several bacteria (bacterial cocktail) isolated
from targeted organs have shown promising modulatory activities for use in skin
therapeutics. The objectives of this study were to determine and identify the
microbial communities on the skin that can potentially be used as probiotics, as 
determined by bacterial isolation and cultivation, followed by next-generation
sequencing (NGS).
Results: Samples were collected by swabbing on forehead and cheek skin. Genomic
DNA from bacterial swab samples were directly extracted to be further processed
into NGS. Cultivation of skin bacteria was carried out in subsequent medium.
Thus, around twenty bacterial isolates with different characteristics were
selected and identified by both culture-based method and 16sRNA sequencing. We
found that Actinobacteria and Firmicutes are the most abundant phylum present on 
the skin as presented by NGS data, which constitute to 67% and 28.59% of the
whole bacterial population, consecutively. However, Staphylococcus hominis,
Staphylococcus warneri, and Micrococcus luteus (AN MK968325.1; AN MK968315.1; and
MK968318.1 respectively) were able to be obtained in the samples of cultivable,
and could be potentially developed as probiotics in skin microbiome therapeutic
as well as for postbiotic formulation.
Conclusion: Skin microbiome is considered to provide several probiotics for skin 
therapeutic. However, some opportunistic pathogens were discovered in this study 
population. Thus, the promising formula of bacterial cocktail for skin microbiome
therapeutic must be thoroughly elucidated to avoid unwanted species. Our study is
the first human skin microbiome profile of Indonesia resulted from a Next
Generation Sequencing as an effort to show a representative of tropical country
profile.

Â© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e03700 
PMCID: PMC7176942
PMID: 32337379 

