
1. J Oral Implantol. 2020 Aug 11. doi: 10.1563/aaid-joi-D-19-00273. [Epub ahead of
print]

An In Vitro Analysis of Sodium Hypochlorite Decontamination for the Reuse of
Implant Healing Abutments.

Almehmadi A(1).

Author information: 
(1)King Abdulaziz University Faculty of Dentistry Assistant Professor Oral
Biology Jamea St SAUDI ARABIA Jeddah West 21463 King Abdulaziz University Faculty
of Dentistry.

The re-use of healing abutments (HAs) has become common practice in implant
dentistry for economic concerns and the aim of this in-vitro study was to assess 
the effect of sodium hypochlorite (NaOCl) in decontamination of HAs. 122 HAs
(Used and sterilized n=107; New n=15) were procured from 3 centers, of which 3
samples were discarded due to perforation in sterilization pouch. Â For sterility 
assessment, the used HAs (n=80) were cultured in Brain Heart Infusion Broth (BHI)
and Potato Dextrose Agar (PDA), bacterial isolates were identified in 7 samples. 
Also, 24 used HAs were stained with Phloxine B, photographed and compared to new 
HAs (n=5). Scanning electron microscope (SEM) assessed the differences between
the two sets of HAs, following which the 7 contaminated HAs along with 24 used
HAs from staining experiment (Total=31) were subsequently treated with sodium
hypochlorite (NaOCl) and SEM images were observed. About 8.75% of HAs tested
positive in bacterial culture; Streptococcus sanguis, Dermabacter hominis,
Staphylococcus haemolyticus, and Aspergillus species were isolated. Phloxine B
staining was positive for used and sterilized HAs when compared to controls. The 
SEM images revealed deposits in the used HAs and although treatment with NaOCl
eliminated the contamination of cultured HAs, the SEM showed visible debris in
the HA thread region. This in-vitro study concluded that SEM images showed debris
in used HAs at screw-hole and thread regions even though they tested negative in 
bacterial culture. The treatment with NaOCl of used HAs showed no bacterial
contamination but the debris was observed in SEM images. Future studies on the
chemical composition, biological implications, and clinical influence is
warranted before considering the reuse of HAs.

DOI: 10.1563/aaid-joi-D-19-00273 
PMID: 32780861 

