
1. Materials (Basel). 2019 Nov 21;12(23). pii: E3838. doi: 10.3390/ma12233838.

Burst Release of Antibiotics Combined with Long-Term Release of Silver Targeting 
Implant-Associated Infections: Design, Characterization and in vitro Evaluation
of Novel Implant Hybrid Surface.

Borcherding K(1), Marx D(1), Gätjen L(1), Bormann N(2), Wildemann B(2)(3), Specht
U(1), Salz D(1), Thiel K(1), Grunwald I(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Adhesive Bonding Technology and Surfaces, Fraunhofer Institute
for Manufacturing Technology and Advanced Materials (IFAM), 28359 Bremen,
Germany.
(2)Julius Wolff Institute, BIH Center for Regenerative Therapies,
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität Berlin,
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and Berlin Institute of Health, 13353 Berlin,
Germany.
(3)Experimental Trauma Surgery, Department of Trauma, Hand and Reconstructive
Surgery, University Hospital Jena, 07747 Jena, Germany.
(4)Industrial and Environmental Biology, Hochschule Bremen-City University of
Applied Sciences, Neustadswall 30, 28199 Bremen, Germany.

Implant-associated infections represent a serious risk in human medicine and can 
lead to complications, revisions and in worst cases, amputations. To target these
risks, the objective was to design a hybrid implant surface that allows a local
burst release of antibiotics combined with long-term antimicrobial activity based
on silver. The efficacy should be generated with simultaneous in vitro
cytocompatibility. The investigations were performed on titanium K-wires and
plates and gentamicin was selected as an illustrative antibiotic. A gentamicin
depot (max 553 µg/cm2) was created on the surface using laser structuring. The
antibiotic was released within 15 min in phosphate buffered saline (PBS) or agar 
medium. Metallic silver particles (4 µg/cm2) in a titanium dioxide layer were
deposited using plasma vapor deposition (PVD). About 16% of the silver was
released within 28 days in the agar medium. The local efficacy of the
incorporated silver was demonstrated in a direct contact assay with a reduction
of more than 99.99% (Escherichia coli). The local efficacy of the hybrid surface 
was confirmed in a zone of inhibition (ZOI) assay using Staphylococcus cohnii.
The biocompatibility of the hybrid surface was proven using fibroblasts and
osteoblasts as cell systems. The hybrid surface design seems to be promising as
treatment of implant-associated infections, considering the achieved amount and
release behavior of the active ingredients (gentamicin, silver). The generated in
vitro results (efficacy, biocompatibility) proofed the concept. Further in vivo
studies will be necessary translate the hybrid surface towards clinical applied
research.

DOI: 10.3390/ma12233838 
PMCID: PMC6926566
PMID: 31766488 

