
1. Cardiol Res. 2020 Jun;11(3):192-195. doi: 10.14740/cr1037. Epub 2020 May 3.

Aggressive Staphylococcus lugdunensis Endocarditis in a Young Healthy Patient: A 
Case Report.

Douedi S(1), Upadhyaya VD(1), Obagi A(2), Hossain M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Jersey Shore University Medical Center, Hackensack
Meridian Health, Neptune, NJ 07753, USA.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Jersey Shore University Medical Center, Hackensack
Meridian Health, Neptune, NJ 07753, USA.

Staphylococcus lugdunensis (S. lugdunensis) is a Î²-hemolytic coagulase-negative
staphylococcus causing skin and soft tissue infections with an increasing
incidence. Commonly found as normal flora in the perineal region, S. lugdunensis 
has been found in rare cases of infective endocarditis causing increased
morbidity and mortality. We present a case of a previously healthy young male
diagnosed with S. lugdunensis-caused infective endocarditis. A 31-year-old male
with no significant past medical history, who presented to the emergency
department with acute onset crushing substernal chest pressure and dyspnea with
profuse sweating following 1-week-long febrile illness and malaise. The initial
electrocardiogram (ECG) showed diffuse ST depressions in all precordial leads,
consistent with an acute coronary syndrome. Emergent transthoracic echocardiogram
revealed an ejection fraction (EF) of 45% with severe aortic insufficiency with
emanating from a torn right coronary cusp. The patient had a cardiac arrest, and 
recovery of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) was obtained after 13 min. He
subsequently underwent mechanical aortic valve replacement surgery. The native
valve specimen cultures grew S. lugdunensis. Postoperatively and after a long
course of antibiotics, the patient fully recovered without complications. S.
lugdunensis is a common organism with increasing incidence that can lead to
significant morbidity and mortality if not properly detected and treated. We hope
this case presentation would support emergency valve replacement surgery in
patients with S. lugdunensis-suspected infective endocarditis.

Copyright 2020, Douedi et al.

DOI: 10.14740/cr1037 
PMCID: PMC7239590
PMID: 32494329 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this paper.

