
1. Cureus. 2020 Jul 20;12(7):e9289. doi: 10.7759/cureus.9289.

Recurrent Bacteremia in the Setting of a Coronary Artery Fistula.

Shah K(1), Jobanputra Y(2), Sharma P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, USA.
(2)Internal Medicine, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Atlantis,
USA.

We present an interesting case of a 31-year-old female with recurrent
Staphylococcus lugdunensis bacteremia in the setting of a coronary artery fistula
(CAF). Over the course of several months, the patient was admitted to the
hospital on three separate occasions with an unclear source of bacteremia. She
suffered from numerous complications, including cavitary pneumonia,
osteomyelitis, synovitis and septic emboli. On each admission, the patient
received intravenous (IV) antibiotic therapy. CT scan of the chest with contrast 
on the third admission revealed a prominent tortuous vessel coursing from the
ascending aorta and main pulmonary artery to the left atrium. Coronary CT
angiogram confirmed the presence of a fistula connecting the left circumflex
artery to the coronary sinus. Common complications of CAF include infective
endocarditis and myocardial ischemia; however, we report a novel case of
recurrent bacteremia in the context of an anomalous coronary artery. Two months
after diagnosis, surgical closure of the CAF was performed. This case illustrates
the importance of utilizing different cardiac imaging modalities in order to
diagnose congenital cardiac anomalies in a timely fashion and intervene
appropriately.

Copyright Â© 2020, Shah et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.9289 
PMCID: PMC7437107
PMID: 32832287 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

