
1. Zhonghua Shao Shang Za Zhi. 2020 Sep 20;36(9):821-829. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.cn501120-20200202-00036.

[Retrospective analysis of 2 997 inpatients with skin and soft tissue injuries].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Yang Y(1), Chu WL(1), Feng G(1), Zhang HJ(1), Hao DF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wound Repair Center of Department of Burns and Plastic Surgery, the Fourth
Medical Center of PLA General Hospital, Beijing 100048, China.

Objective: To analyze the epidemiological characteristics and the related
information on the diagnosis and treatment of inpatients with skin and soft
tissue injuries. Methods: The medical records of inpatients with skin and soft
tissue injuries who were admitted to the Fourth Medical Center of PLA General
Hospital (hereinafter referred to as the author's unit) from January 1, 2014 to
December 31, 2018, conforming to the study criteria, were retrospectively
analyzed. The indexes included inpatients'gender, age, wound course, underlying
disease, wound type, wound site, and wound microbiological culture result,
methods and outcome of treatment, type of medical payment, hospital day, and
hospitalization cost. Data were statistically analyzed with Mann-Whitney U test, 
Kruskal-Wallis H test, and chi-square test. Results: (1) A total of 2 997
inpatients, conforming to the study criteria, were admitted to the author's unit 
during the 5 years. There were 1 803 (60.16%) males and 1 194 (39.84%) females.
The distribution of gender of patients showed significant differences during the 
5 years (χ(2)=13.203, P<0.05). The age of female patients was significantly older
than that of male patients (Z=-6.387, P<0.01). There were 882 (29.43%) patients
with acute wounds and 2 115 (70.57%) patients with chronic wounds. The
distribution of acute wounds and chronic wounds of patients showed significant
differences during the 5 years (χ(2)=66.806, P<0.01). The age of patients with
chronic wounds was significantly older than that of patients with acute wounds
(Z=-12.582, P<0.01). A total of 1 910 patients (3 847 cases) were complicated
with underlying diseases. The common underlying diseases orderly were diabetes 1 
151 (29.92%) cases, hypertension 884 (22.98%) cases, coro-nary atherosclerotic
heart disease 414 (10.76%) cases, old cerebral infarction 258 (6.71%) cases, and 
paraplegia 258 (6.71%) cases. More patients with chronic wounds were complicated 
with various underlying diseases compared with patients with acute wounds
(χ(2)=130.649, P<0.01). (2) The common types of wounds were postoperative
non-healing wounds, burn wounds, diabetic foot ulcers, pressure ulcers, and skin 
and soft tissue infection. The distribution of types of wounds showed significant
differences during the 5 years (χ(2)=342.265, P<0.01). There were 3 957 wounds.
The common wound sites were feet, legs, chests, and so on. A total of 976
patients underwent microbiological examination. The results of 719 (73.67%)
patients were positive and 257 (26.33%) patients were negative. The positive rate
of wound microbiological culture of patients with chronic wounds was
significantly higher than that of patients with acute wounds (χ(2)=33.981,
P<0.01). Among the patients with acute wounds, 111 patients (72.08%) were simply 
infected, 43 (27.92%) patients were mixed infected. Among the patients with
chronic wounds, 364 (64.42%) patients were simply infected, and 201 (35.58%)
patients were mixed infected. A total of 1 010 strains of pathogenic bacteria
were detected in 719 patients, including 447 (44.26%) Gram-positive bacteria, 548
(54.26%) Gram-negative bacteria, and 15 (1.48%) fungi. There was a significant
difference in the distribution of pathogenic microorganisms between patients with
acute wounds and chronic wounds (χ(2)=12.215, P<0.01). In this group of patients,
the common strains of wounds were Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli,
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and so on. The common strains of patients with acute
wounds were Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus epidermidis, 
and so on. The common strains of patients with chronic wounds were Staphylococcus
aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia colis, and so on. (3) The patients in
this group were mainly treated by surgery. Finally, 1 330 patients were cured, 1 
393 patients were improved, 257 patients were not cured, and 17 patients died.
There was a significant difference in the distribution of outcome in patients
with acute wounds and chronic wounds (Z=-7.622, P<0.01). (4) The main types of
payment of medical expenses for patients in this group were local medical
insurance, remote medical insurance, and self-paying. The total hospitalization
cost of patients in this group was 169 268 523.65 yuan, which was mainly consist 
of the costs of materials and drugs. The hospital day of patients in this group
was 21.00 (11.00, 36.00) d, and the hospitalization cost was 30 016.34 (14
439.41, 63 685.60) yuan. There were significant differences in the hospital day
and hospitalization cost among patients with different medical payment types
(χ(2)=285.986, 327.436, P<0.01). There were significant differences in the
hospital day and hospitalization cost among patients with different wound types
(χ(2)=125.912, 131.485, P<0.01). Conclusions: The patients with skin and soft
tissue injuries are mainly middle-aged and elderly patients, with more males than
females, more chronic wounds than acute wounds. Skin and soft tissue injuries are
prone to occur in sites with prominent bone, thin subcutaneous fat, and poor
blood supply. The result of wound microbiological culture is mainly Gram-negative
bacteria, and the positive rate of wound microbiological culture of patients with
chronic wounds is higher than that of patients with acute wounds. The proportion 
of Gram-positive bacterial infection ranks the highest in patients with acute
wounds. The proportion of Gram-negative bacterial infection ranks the highest in 
patients with chronic wounds. Patients with chronic wounds are often complicated 
with various underlying diseases, and the course of disease is long, so the
constituent ratio of cured patients is lower than that of patients with acute
wounds. Patients with skin and soft tissue injuries have long hospital days and
high proportion of material cost, which are directly related to the clinical
characteristics and long treatment cycle of chronic wounds. Therefore, it is
suggested that the medical insurance administration department should adjust the 
consumption ratio and other management indicators according to the actual
clinical needs of elderly patients with chronic wounds.

Publisher: 目的： 分析皮肤软组织损伤住院患者的流行病学特征以及相关诊疗信息。 方法：
回顾性分析解放军总医院第四医学中心(下称笔者单位)2014年1月1日—2018年12月31日收治的符合入选标准的皮肤软组织损伤住院患者的病历资料。统计如下指标：性
别、年龄、创面病程、基础性疾病，创面类型、部位和创面微生物培养结果，治疗方式和结局，医疗费用支付类型、住院天数及住院费用。对数据行Mann-Whitney
U检验、Kruskal-Wallis H检验、χ(2)检验。 结果： (1)笔者单位5年间共收治2 997例符合入选标准的患者，男1
803例(60.16%)、女1
194例(39.84%)，本组患者5年间性别分布差异明显(χ(2)＝13.203，P<0.05)，女性患者年龄明显高于男性患者(Z＝-6.387，P<0.01)。
急性创面患者882例(29.43%)，慢性创面患者2
115例(70.57%)，本组患者5年间急慢性创面分布差异明显(χ(2)＝66.806，P<0.01)。慢性创面患者的年龄明显高于急性创面患者(Z＝-12.582
，P<0.01)。共计1 910例患者合并基础性疾病，共3 847例次，常见基础性疾病依次为糖尿病1
151例次(29.92%)、高血压884例次(22.98%)、冠状动脉粥样硬化性心脏病414例次(10.76%)、陈旧性脑梗死258例次(6.71%)、截瘫258
例次(6.71%)。慢性创面患者合并基础性疾病例数明显多于急性创面患者(χ(2)＝130.649，P<0.01)。(2)本组患者常见创面类型依次为术后难愈性创面、
烧伤创面、糖尿病足溃疡、压疮、皮肤软组织感染。本组患者5年间创面类型分布差异明显(χ(2)＝342.265，P<0.01)。本组患者共3
957处创面。常见创面部位依次为足部、腿部、胸部等。976例患者行创面微生物培养，719例(73.67%)患者结果为阳性，257例(26.33%)患者结果为阴性。
慢性创面患者的创面微生物培养阳性率明显高于急性创面患者(χ(2)＝33.981，P<0.01)。急性创面患者中单纯感染111例(72.08%)、混合感染43例(2
7.92%)，慢性创面患者中单纯感染364例(64.42%)、混合感染201例(35.58%)。719例患者共检出病原菌1
010株，其中革兰阳性菌447株(44.26%)、革兰阴性菌548株(54.26%)、真菌15株(1.48%)。急性和慢性创面患者的病原微生物分布差异明显(χ(2
)＝12.215，P<0.01)。本组患者创面常见菌株为金黄色葡萄球菌、大肠杆菌、铜绿假单胞菌等。急性创面患者常见菌株为金黄色葡萄球菌、大肠杆菌、表皮葡萄球菌等，
慢性创面患者常见菌株为金黄色葡萄球菌、铜绿假单胞菌、大肠杆菌等。(3)本组患者主要行手术治疗。最终痊愈1 330例、好转1
393例、未愈257例、死亡17例。慢性和急性创面患者治疗结局分布差异明显(Z＝-7.622，P<0.01)。(4)本组患者医疗费用支付类型主要为地方医疗保险、异
地医疗保险、自费。本组患者总体住院费用为169 268
523.65元，以材料费用与药物费用为主。本组患者住院天数为21.00(11.00，36.00)d，住院费用为30 016.34(14 439.41，63
685.60)元。不同医疗费用支付类型患者的住院天数与住院费用均差异明显(χ(2)＝285.986、327.436，P<0.01)。不同创面类型患者的住院天数与住
院费用均差异明显(χ(2)＝125.912、131.485，P<0.01)。 结论：
皮肤软组织损伤住院患者以中老年为主，男性患者多于女性，慢性创面患者多于急性创面；皮肤软组织损伤好发生于骨性突出、皮下脂肪菲薄、血供差的部位；创面微生物培养结果以革
兰阴性菌为主，且慢性创面患者的阳性率高于急性创面患者；急性创面患者中革兰阳性菌占比最高，慢性创面患者中革兰阴性菌占比最高；慢性创面患者多伴有各类基础性疾病且病程长
，其痊愈患者比例低于急性创面；皮肤软组织损伤患者住院天数长、材料费用占比高，与慢性创面愈合能力差、治疗周期长的临床特点直接相关，建议医疗保险管理部门针对老年慢性创
面类住院病例的临床实际需求调节耗占比等管理指标。.
DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn501120-20200202-00036 
PMID: 32972067 

