
1. Int J Med Microbiol. 2019 Dec;309(8):151355. doi: 10.1016/j.ijmm.2019.151355.
Epub 2019 Sep 5.

Staphylococcus petrasii diagnostics and its pathogenic potential enhanced by
mobile genetic elements.

Vrbovská V(1), Kovařovic V(1), Mašlaňová I(1), Indráková A(1), Petráš P(2), Šedo 
O(3), Švec P(4), Fišarová L(1), Šiborová M(3), Mikulášek K(5), Sedláček I(4),
Doškař J(1), Pantůček R(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Genetics and Molecular Biology, Department of Experimental
Biology, Faculty of Science, Masaryk University, Kotlářská 2, 611 37 Brno, Czech 
Republic.
(2)Reference Laboratory for Staphylococci, National Institute of Public Health,
Šrobárova 48, 100 42 Praha 10, Czech Republic.
(3)Central European Institute of Technology, Masaryk University, Kamenice 5, 625 
00 Brno, Czech Republic.
(4)Czech Collection of Microorganisms, Department of Experimental Biology,
Faculty of Science, Masaryk University, Kamenice 5, 625 00 Brno, Czech Republic.
(5)Central European Institute of Technology, Masaryk University, Kamenice 5, 625 
00 Brno, Czech Republic; National Centre for Biomolecular Research, Masaryk
University, Kamenice 5, 625 00 Brno, Czech Republic.
(6)Division of Genetics and Molecular Biology, Department of Experimental
Biology, Faculty of Science, Masaryk University, Kotlářská 2, 611 37 Brno, Czech 
Republic. Electronic address: pantucek@sci.muni.cz.

Staphylococcus petrasii is recently described coagulase negative staphylococcal
species and an opportunistic human pathogen, still often misidentified in
clinical specimens. Four subspecies are distinguished in S. petrasii by
polyphasic taxonomical analyses, however a comparative study has still not been
done on the majority of isolates and their genome properties have not yet been
thoroughly analysed. Here, we describe the phenotypic and genotypic
characteristics of 65 isolates and the results of de novo sequencing, whole
genome assembly and annotation of draft genomes of five strains. The strains were
identified by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry to the species level and the majority
of the strains were identified to the subspecies level by fingerprinting methods,
(GTG)5 repetitive PCR and ribotyping. Macrorestriction profiling by pulsed-field 
gel electrophoresis was confirmed to be a suitable strain typing method.
Comparative genomics revealed the presence of new mobile genetic elements
carrying antimicrobial resistance factors such as staphylococcal cassette
chromosome (SCC) mec, transposones, phage-inducible genomic islands, and
plasmids. Their mosaic structure and similarity across coagulase-negative
staphylococci and Staphylococcus aureus suggest the possible exchange of these
elements. Numerous putative virulence factors such as adhesins, autolysins,
exoenzymes, capsule formation genes, immunomodulators, the phage-associated sasX 
gene, and SCC-associated spermidine N-acetyltransferase gene, pseudouridine and
sorbitol utilization operons might explain clinical manifestations of S. petrasii
isolates. The increasing recovery of S. petrasii isolates from human clinical
material, the multi-drug resistance including methicillin resistance of S.
petrasii subsp. jettensis strains, and virulence factors homologous to other
pathogenic staphylococci demonstrate the importance of the species in human
disease.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijmm.2019.151355 
PMID: 31563331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

