
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jan 24;8(2). pii: E167. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8020167.

Exploring the Ambiguous Status of Coagulase-Negative Staphylococci in the
Biosafety of Fermented Meats: The Case of Antibacterial Activity Versus Biogenic 
Amine Formation.

Van der Veken D(1), Benhachemi R(2), Charmpi C(1), Ockerman L(1), Poortmans M(2),
Van Reckem E(1), Michiels C(2), Leroy F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Group of Industrial Microbiology and Food Biotechnology (IMDO),
Faculty of Sciences and Bio-engineering Sciences, Vrije Universiteit Brussel,
1050 Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Laboratory of Food Microbiology and Leuven Food Science and Nutrition Research
Centre (LFoRCe), KU Leuven, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium.

A total of 332 staphylococcal strains, mainly isolated from meat, were screened
for antibacterial activity. Eighteen strains exhibited antibacterial activity
towards species within the same genus. These antibacterial strains were further
screened against Clostridium botulinum, to assess their potential as
anticlostridial starter cultures for the development of fermented meat products
without added nitrate or nitrite. Only Staphylococcus sciuri IMDO-S72 had the
ability to inhibit all clostridial strains tested, whilst displaying additional
activity against Bacillus cereus, Listeria monocytogenes and Staphylococcus
aureus. Apart from their potential as bioprotective cultures, the staphylococcal 
collection was also screened for biogenic amine production, as these compounds
may compromise food quality. To this end, ultra-high-performance liquid
chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) was applied. A
low incidence of biogenic amine production was found, with tyramine and
Î²-phenylethylamine being the most prevalent ones. Concentrations remained
relatively low (< 52 mg/L) after a prolonged incubation period, posing no or
little threat towards food safety. Taken together, S. sciuri IMDO-S72 could serve
as an interesting candidate for the bioprotection of fermented meats as it showed
promising antibacterial activity as well as absence of biogenic amine production.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8020167 
PMCID: PMC7074764
PMID: 31991613 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

