
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Aug;89:103417. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103417. Epub 2020 Jan 
10.

Characterization of the microbial community composition in Italian Cinta Senese
sausages dry-fermented with natural extracts as alternatives to sodium nitrite.

Pini F(1), Aquilani C(2), Giovannetti L(1), Viti C(3), Pugliese C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agronomy, Food, Environmental and Forestry (DAGRI), University
of Florence, Piazzale Delle Cascine 24, I-50144, Florence, Italy; Genexpress
Laboratory, Department of Agronomy, Food, Environmental and Forestry (DAGRI),
University of Florence, Via Della Lastruccia 14, I-50019, Sesto Fiorentino,
Italy.
(2)Department of Agronomy, Food, Environmental and Forestry (DAGRI), University
of Florence, Piazzale Delle Cascine 24, I-50144, Florence, Italy.
(3)Department of Agronomy, Food, Environmental and Forestry (DAGRI), University
of Florence, Piazzale Delle Cascine 24, I-50144, Florence, Italy; Genexpress
Laboratory, Department of Agronomy, Food, Environmental and Forestry (DAGRI),
University of Florence, Via Della Lastruccia 14, I-50019, Sesto Fiorentino,
Italy. Electronic address: carlo.viti@unifi.it.

Nitrite is widely used in meat products as a multifunctional additive, combining 
flavour and colour properties with antioxidant and antimicrobial effects.
However, nitrite may form reaction products (i.e., nitrosamine) that are
potentially carcinogenic to humans. The meat industry, in response to consumers' 
demands for nitrite-free products, is seeking natural alternatives to nitrite,
such as plant-based extracts. Three types of dry-fermented sausages were
manufactured: NIT, containing 30 ppm of sodium nitrite; GSE, containing grape
seed extract and olive pomace hydroxytyrosol; and CHE, containing chestnut
extract and olive pomace hydroxytyrosol. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) was
used to analyse microbial consortia, which were correlated with physical and
chemical parameters. The prokaryotic community composition was similar among
treatments, with a high relative abundance of Staphylococcus xylosus and
Lactobacillus sakei, collectively accounting for 87% of the total community.
However, significant differences were observed in both operational taxonomic unit
(OTU) presence/absence and relative abundance. Ten genera varied in abundance
between treatments. The increase in Lactobacillaceae in CHE may explain the
reduced pH levels detected in these samples. In conclusion, NGS analysis showed
that the prokaryotic community composition was similar in GSE and NIT, while CHE 
varied in both the composition and relative abundance of different taxa.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103417 
PMID: 32138987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

