
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jul 10;8(7). pii: E1025. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8071025.

Low-Fat and High-Quality Fermented Sausages.

Tremonte P(1), Pannella G(1), Lombardi SJ(1), Iorizzo M(1), Vergalito F(1),
Cozzolino A(1), Maiuro L(1), Succi M(1), Sorrentino E(1), Coppola R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural, Environmental and Food Sciences (DiAAA),
University of Molise, 86100 Campobasso, Italy.

The present study, considering for the first time microbiological concerns due to
the use of lemon albedo as a fat replacer, aimed at the selection of an
anti-Listeria strain to be used as protective culture in low-fat southern Italian
fermented sausages. In fact, these kinds of products require appropriate
bio-protective strategies to avoid risks due to Listeria monocytogenes.
Sixty-seven Lactiplantibacillus plantarum strains isolated from diverse sources
were screened for their antimicrobial activity and their interaction with starter
strains (Latilactobacillus sakei 152 and Staphylococcus xylosus MVS9).
Lactiplantibacillus plantarum Lpls100, highlighting both listericidal activity
and the ability to promote Staphylococcus xylosus MVS9 growth, was used as a
protective strain in low-fat fermented sausages prepared with lemon albedo as a
fat replacer. The effect of the albedo and the protective strain on the
fermentation process and the final quality was ascertained. Results highlighted
that the use of the albedo did not affect the growth of starter strains and
enhanced some quality features, such as fatty acid profiles and certain sensory
attributes. However, the albedo also produced a slow decrease in water activity, 
compromising the microbial quality. The anti-Listeria strain, enhancing coagulase
negative cocci growth and exerting antimicrobial activity, avoided the
inconveniences caused by the use of the albedo. Moreover, the anti-Listeria
effectiveness was assessed through a challenge test using a Listeria cocktail.
The study revealed that Lactiplantibacillus plantarum Lpls100, regardless of the 
presence of the albedo, assures a prompt inhibition of Listeria spp. Therefore,
its use could be an important contribution to the quality of low-fat fermented
sausages.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8071025 
PMCID: PMC7409128
PMID: 32664371 

