
1. Foods. 2020 May 23;9(5). pii: E673. doi: 10.3390/foods9050673.

Polyvalent Phage CoNShP-3 as a Natural Antimicrobial Agent Showing Lytic and
Antibiofilm Activities against Antibiotic-Resistant Coagulase-Negative
Staphylococci Strains.

Sofy AR(1), Abd El Haliem NF(2), Refaey EE(1), Hmed AA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Botany and Microbiology Department, Faculty of Science, Al-Azhar University,
Nasr City, 11884 Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Microbiology and Immunology Department, Faculty of Medicine (Girls), Al-Azhar 
University, Nasr City, 11884 Cairo, Egypt.

Synthetic antimicrobials have a negative impact on food quality and consumer
health, which is why natural antimicrobials are urgently needed.
Coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNS) has gained considerable importance for
food poisoning and infection in humans and animals, particularly in biofilms. As 
a result, this study was conducted to control the CoNS isolated from food samples
in Egypt. CoNS isolates were selected on the basis of their antibiotic
susceptibility profiles and their biofilm-associated behavior. In this context, a
total of 29 different bacteriophages were isolated and, in particular, lytic
phages (6 isolates) were selected. The host range and physiological parameters of
the lytic phages have been studied. Electron microscopy images showed that lytic 
phages were members of the families Myoviridae (CoNShP-1, CoNShP-3, and CoNSeP-2 
isolates) and Siphoviridae (CoNShP-2, CoNSsP-1, and CoNSeP-1 isolates). CoNShP-1,
CoNShP-2, and CoNShP-3 were found to be virulent to Staphylococcus haemolyticus, 
CoNSsP-1 to Staphylococcus saprophyticus and CoNSeP-1 and CoNSeP-2 to
Staphylococcus epidermidis. Interestingly, the CoNShP-exhibited a typical
polyvalent behavior, where not only lysis CoNS, but also other genera include
Staphylococcus aureus, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA),
vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (VRSA), Bacillus cereus and Bacillus
subtilis. In addition, CoNShP-3 phage showed high stability at different
temperatures and pH levels. Indeed, CoNShP-3 phage showed an antibiofilm effect
against Staphylococcus epidermidis CFS79 and Staphylococcus haemolyticus CFS43,
respectively, while Staphylococcus saprophyticus CFS28 biofilm was completely
removed. Finally, CoNShP-3 phage demonstrated a high preservative efficacy over
short and long periods of storage against inoculated CoNS in chicken breast
sections. In conclusion, this study highlights the control of CoNS pathogens
using a polyvalent lytic phage as a natural antibacterial and antibiofilm agent
from a food safety perspective.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9050673 
PMCID: PMC7278617
PMID: 32456227 

