
1. Viruses. 2020 Sep 25;12(10). pii: E1076. doi: 10.3390/v12101076.

The Protective Effect of Staphylococcus epidermidis Biofilm Matrix against Phage 
Predation.

Melo LDR(1), Pinto G(1), Oliveira F(1), Vilas-Boas D(1), Almeida C(1)(2),
Sillankorva S(1)(3), Cerca N(1), Azeredo J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Investigação em Biofilmes Rosário Oliveira, Centre of
Biological Engineering, University of Minho Braga, 4710-057 Braga, Portugal.
(2)INIAV, IP-National Institute for Agrarian and Veterinary Research, Vairão,
4485-655 Vila Do Conde, Portugal.
(3)INL-International Iberian Nanotechnology Laboratory, Av. Mestre José Veiga,
4715-330 Braga, Portugal.

Staphylococcus epidermidis is a major causative agent of nosocomial infections,
mainly associated with the use of indwelling devices, on which this bacterium
forms structures known as biofilms. Due to biofilms' high tolerance to
antibiotics, virulent bacteriophages were previously tested as novel therapeutic 
agents. However, several staphylococcal bacteriophages were shown to be
inefficient against biofilms. In this study, the previously characterized S.
epidermidis-specific Sepunavirus phiIBB-SEP1 (SEP1), which has a broad spectrum
and high activity against planktonic cells, was evaluated concerning its efficacy
against S. epidermidis biofilms. The in vitro biofilm killing assays demonstrated
a reduced activity of the phage. To understand the underlying factors impairing
SEP1 inefficacy against biofilms, this phage was tested against distinct
planktonic and biofilm-derived bacterial populations. Interestingly, SEP1 was
able to lyse planktonic cells in different physiological states, suggesting that 
the inefficacy for biofilm control resulted from the biofilm 3D structure and the
protective effect of the matrix. To assess the impact of the biofilm architecture
on phage predation, SEP1 was tested in disrupted biofilms resulting in a 2
orders-of-magnitude reduction in the number of viable cells after 6 h of
infection. The interaction between SEP1 and the biofilm matrix was further
assessed by the addition of matrix to phage particles. Results showed that the
matrix did not inactivate phages nor affected phage adsorption. Moreover,
confocal laser scanning microscopy data demonstrated that phage infected cells
were less predominant in the biofilm regions where the matrix was more abundant. 
Our results provide compelling evidence indicating that the biofilm matrix can
work as a barrier, allowing the bacteria to be hindered from phage infection.

DOI: 10.3390/v12101076 
PMID: 32992766 

