
1. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2020 Oct;71(4):359-368. doi: 10.1111/lam.13362. Epub 2020
Aug 14.

Isolation, identification and characterization of Staphylococcus sp. from Indian 
ethnic fermented fish product.

Majumdar RK(1), Gupta S(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Fisheries (CAU-I), Lembucherra, Tripura, India.

Staphylococci from Sheedal of Northeast India was isolated, identified and
characterized. All the isolated staphylococci were found to be coagulase
negative. Based on the rpoB gene sequences followed by analysis using NCBI-BLAST 
software, seven species of Staphylococcus namely, S. piscifermentans, S.
condimenti, S. arlettae, S. sciuri, S. warneri, S. nepalensis and S. hominis were
recognized. Phylogenetic analyses revealed three major cluster groups. All the
seven Staphylococcus showed their NaCl tolerance from 2 to 8%. No species was
able to grow at 55°C. Except S. arlettae and S. sciuri, all the isolated
staphylococcal species exhibited growth at pH 4-8. No isolated species was able
to ferment mannitol, sucrose and arabinose. All the species exhibited moderate to
maximum proteolytic and lipolytic activities. All the seven species were found to
be sensitive to the antibiotics, namely, erythromycin, norfloxacin, ampicillin,
streptomycin and vancomycin, whereas all were resistant to co-trimoxazole. Only
S. piscifermentans was found antagonist to Salmonella enterica, Escherichia coli 
and Bacillus subtilis, although the clear zone was minimal. All the
staphylococcal species except S. arlettae and S. sciuri exhibited hydrophobicity 
ranging from 25 to 66%. The observed characteristics of isolated Staphylococci
from Sheedal revealed their role in fish fermentation.

© 2020 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.13362 
PMID: 32713031 

