
1. Infect Genet Evol. 2020 Sep 3:104531. doi: 10.1016/j.meegid.2020.104531. [Epub
ahead of print]

Diversity of L1/L2 genes and molecular epidemiology of high-level carbapenem
resistance Stenotrophomonas maltophilia isolates from animal production
environment in China.

Han L(1), Zhang RM(2), Jia L(1), Bai SC(1), Liu XW(1), Wei R(1), Cui CY(1), Sun
RY(1), Wang MG(1), Cai DT(1), Liao XP(2), Liu YH(2), Sun J(3).

Author information: 
(1)National Risk Assessment Laboratory for Antimicrobial Resistance of Animal
Original Bacteria, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, China;
Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Veterinary Pharmaceutics Development and
Safety Evaluation, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)National Risk Assessment Laboratory for Antimicrobial Resistance of Animal
Original Bacteria, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, China;
Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern Agriculture, Guangzhou, China; Guangdong 
Provincial Key Laboratory of Veterinary Pharmaceutics Development and Safety
Evaluation, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, China.
(3)National Risk Assessment Laboratory for Antimicrobial Resistance of Animal
Original Bacteria, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, China;
Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan Modern Agriculture, Guangzhou, China; Guangdong 
Provincial Key Laboratory of Veterinary Pharmaceutics Development and Safety
Evaluation, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, China. Electronic
address: jiansun@scau.edu.cn.

Stenotrophomonas maltophilia is emerging as a significant cause of human and
animal disease worldwide. A total of 3400 samples were collected from animal
farms and adjacent environments in China. The blaL1 and blaL2 genes were
identified using whole genome sequence analyses and examined by phylogenetics.
Isolates were also tested for susceptibility to 18 antibiotics. We isolated 118
strains of S. maltophilia from 3400 samples. The positive rates of blaL1 and
blaL2 genes were 75% (89/118) and 22% (26/118) and we identified 11 L1 and 6 L2
amino acid sequence variants. S. maltophilia has at least two inducible
β-lactamases (L1 and L2) that can hydrolyze almost all classes of β-lactams and
these genes are suspected to confer carbapenem resistance. This represents a
significant public health threat especially for hospitalized patients. We
conducted a molecular surveillance study on the prevalence and characteristics of
the blaL1 and blaL2 genes of S. maltophilia.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meegid.2020.104531 
PMID: 32891878 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Authors have no
conflict of interest to declare and at present.

