
1. 3 Biotech. 2020 Jan;10(1):16. doi: 10.1007/s13205-019-2007-y. Epub 2019 Dec 10.

Purification, characterization and cloning of a chitinase from Stenotrophomonas
rhizophila G22.

Jankiewicz U(1), Baranowski B(1), Swiontek Brzezinska M(2), Frąk M(3).

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology, Institute of Biology, Warsaw
University of Life Sciences, Nowoursynowska 159, 02787 Warsaw, Poland.
(2)2Department of Environmental Microbiology and Biotechnology, Nicolaus
Copernicus University, Lwowska 1, 87100 Toruń, Poland.
(3)3Department of Remote Sensing and Environmental Assessment, Institute of
Environmental Engineering, Warsaw University of Life Science, Nowoursynowska 159,
02787 Warsaw, Poland.

In the presented research the extracellular chitinase of Stenotrophomonas
rhizophila G22 was biochemically and molecularly characterized. The studied
enzyme was purified from a 72-h bacterial culture about 14 times, with a recovery
of 63%. The molecular weight of the purified protein was estimated at 50 kDa by
SDS-PAGE. The enzyme showed high activity against colloidal chitin. Significantly
lower activities were observed with native chitin powder and chitosan. Adsorption
of the enzyme to colloidal chitin and to powdered chitin at the level of 75% and 
37%, respectively, was observed after 30 min of reaction. Optimum temperature and
pH were 37 °C and 5.9, respectively. The enzyme demonstrated higher activity
against nitrophenyl-β d N, N', N″-triacetylchitotriose and approx. 5 times lower 
activity for 4-nitrophenyl-N, N'-diacetyl-β-d-chitobiose. The enzyme is an
endochitinase, which is confirmed by the K m and V max values determined in the
studies. S. rhizophila G22 endochitinase was inhibited in the presence of
cysteine-specific inhibitors, which indicates the role of cysteine moieties in
the mechanism of catalysis or in stabilisation of the enzyme molecule. Also Ca2+ 
and Mn2+ ions may stabilise the protein's spatial structure. SDS and ions: Fe2+, 
Cu2+, Co2+, Zn2+ inhibited the activity of enzyme. A full-length (2109 bp) gene
coding chitinase from S. rhizophila G22 was obtained. Four domains typical for
glycoside hydrolase family 18 (GH 18) chitinases were identified: catalytic
Gly_18, chitin-binding-ChtBD3, type-III fibronectin-FN3 and polycystic kidney
disease domain-PKD domain.

© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2019.

DOI: 10.1007/s13205-019-2007-y 
PMCID: PMC6904715 [Available on 2021-01-01]
PMID: 31879580 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestAll authors declare that they
have no conflict of interest. No grants were received.

