
1. BMC Pulm Med. 2020 Aug 31;20(1):233. doi: 10.1186/s12890-020-01275-8.

Pathogenic characteristics of sputum and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples
from patients with lower respiratory tract infection in a large teaching hospital
in China: a retrospective study.

Peng Z(1), Zhou J(2), Tian L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College,
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China.
(2)Department of Blood Transfusion, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College,
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College,
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China.
iso15189@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Lower respiratory tract infection (LRIs) is very common both in terms
of community-acquired infection and hospital-acquired infection. Sputum and
bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) are the most important specimens obtained
from patients with LRI. The choice of antibiotic with which to treat LRI usually 
depends on the antimicrobial sensitivity of bacteria isolated from sputum and
BALF. However, differences in the antimicrobial sensitivity of pathogens isolated
from sputum and BALF have not been evaluated.
METHODS: A retrospective study was conducted to analyze the differences between
sputum and BALF samples in terms of pathogen isolation and antimicrobial
sensitivity in hospitalized patients with LRI.
RESULTS: Between 2013 and 2015, quality evaluation of sputum samples was not
conducted before performing sputum culture; however, between 2016 and 2018,
quality evaluation of sputum samples was conducted first, and only
quality-assured samples were cultured. The numbers of sputum and BALF in
2013-2015 were 15,549 and 1671, while those in 2016-2018 were 12,055 and 3735,
respectively. The results of pathogen culture showed that Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
Acinetobacter baumannii, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, Hemophilus
influenzae, Escherichia coli, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, and Streptococcus
pneumoniae were in the top ten pathogens isolated from sputum and BALF. An
antimicrobial susceptibility test showed that the susceptibility of BALF isolates
to most antibiotics was higher compared with the susceptibility of sputum
isolates, especially after quality control of sputum samples (2016-2018).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that caution is needed in making therapeutic
choices for patients with LRI when using antimicrobial sensitivity results from
sputum isolates as opposed to BALF isolates.

DOI: 10.1186/s12890-020-01275-8 
PMCID: PMC7460743
PMID: 32867740 

