
1. Pest Manag Sci. 2020 Apr 20. doi: 10.1002/ps.5867. [Epub ahead of print]

Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria: a novel management strategy for Meloidogyne
incognita on turfgrass.

Groover W(1), Held D(1), Lawrence K(1), Carson K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology, Auburn University, Auburn,
Alabama, USA.

BACKGROUND: Meloidogyne spp., root-knot nematodes, are among the most
economically important plant-parasitic nematodes in turfgrass in the United
States. Only a few nematicides are available or efficacious for plant-parasitic
nematodes in turfgrass in the United States, and recent work has demonstrated the
potential for microbial control of root-knot nematodes in field crops. The
objectives of this study were to evaluate the efficacy of 104 plant
growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) strains isolated from grasses in Alabama
against M. incognita in vitro, and their ability to manage plant-parasitic
nematodes in the glasshouse and microplot settings.
RESULTS: In vitro mortality ranged from 0.9% to 94.6% by all PGPR strains
screened. Ten individual PGPR strains and one three-strain blend (a total of 13
PGPR strains) were advanced to glasshouse and microplot screening. In the
glasshouse, six of the 11 PGPR treatments significantly reduced M. incognita
population density, with a few strains also promoting some root growth. In the
microplot, five of the 11 PGPR treatments significantly reduced M. incognita
population density.
CONCLUSION: Of these strains, 11 were identified as Bacillus spp., one as
Stenotrophomonas rhizophila and one as Paenibacillus sonchi. Eight of these
strains also were found to have nitrogenase activity, and seven had the ability
to produce siderophores, showing a potential mechanism for growth promotion.
Overall, results indicate that multiple strains of Bacillus spp. and one strain
of S. rhizophila have the potential to reduce M. incognita population density and
enhance turfgrass root growth.

Â© 2020 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/ps.5867 
PMID: 32309906 

