
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 30;8(10). pii: E1506. doi:
10.3390/microorganisms8101506.

Microbiome Management by Biological and Chemical Treatments in Maize Is Linked to
Plant Health.

Kusstatscher P(1), Wicaksono WA(1), Thenappan DP(2), Adam E(1), MÃ¼ller H(1)(3),
Berg G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Environmental Biotechnology, Graz University of Technology, 8010 
Graz, Austria.
(2)Division of Microbiology, ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New
Delhi 110012, India.
(3)Biotenzz GmbH, 8010 Graz, Austria.

The targeted application of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) provides 
the key for a future sustainable agriculture with reduced pesticide application. 
PGPR interaction with the indigenous microbiota is poorly understood, but
essential to develop reliable applications. Therefore, Stenotrophomonas
rhizophila SPA-P69 was applied as a seed coating and in combination with a
fungicide based on the active ingredients fludioxonil, metalaxyl-M, captan and
ziram. The plant performances and rhizosphere compositions of treated and
non-treated maize plants of two field trials were analyzed. Plant health was
significantly increased by treatment; however, overall corn yield was not
changed. By applying high-throughput amplicon sequencing of the 16S rRNA and the 
ITS genes, the bacterial and fungal changes in the rhizosphere due to different
treatments were determined. Despite the fact that treatments had a significant
impact on the rhizosphere microbiota (9-12%), the field site was identified as
the main driver (27-37%). The soil microbiota composition from each site was
significantly different, which explains the site-specific effects. In this study 
we were able to show the first indications how PGPR treatments increase plant
health via microbiome shifts in a site-specific manner. This way, first steps
towards a detailed understanding of PGPRs and developments of consistently
efficient applications in diverse environments are made.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8101506 
PMID: 33007821 

