
1. Infect Chemother. 2020 Aug 12. [Epub ahead of print]

Multiple Opportunistic Infections Related to Hypercortisolemia due to
Adrenocortical Carcinoma: A Case Report.

Song BG(1), Lim MG(1), Bae JH(1), Hong JH(1), Lee SG(1), Park SH(2), Kang CI(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University of
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Division of Oncology, Department of Medicine, Samsung Medical Center,
Sungkyunkwan University of School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Samsung Medical
Center, Sungkyunkwan University of School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
collacin@hotmail.com.

Cushing's syndrome is characterized by excessive cortisol and immuno-suppression.
We experienced a case of Cushing's syndrome caused by adrenocortical carcinoma
that was complicated by multiple opportunistic infections. A 37-year-old woman
with adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) presented with decreased mental ability and
high fever one week after undergoing chemotherapy. Her initial blood culture
revealed methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia accompanied by
septic pneumonia. We admitted her to the intensive care unit and treated her for 
invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA), Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PJP),
candidemia, and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia pneumonia with broad-spectrum
antibiotics and antifungal agents. Nevertheless, her clinical course worsened and
she died. Herein, we report a case of Cushing's syndrome associated with
cortisol-secreting ACC that presented with multiple opportunistic infections,
including MRSA bacteremia, septic pneumonia, candidemia, PJP, and IPA,
illuminating a relationship between hypercortisolemia and opportunistic
infections.

Copyright Â© 2020 by The Korean Society of Infectious Diseases, Korean Society for
Antimicrobial Therapy, and The Korean Society for AIDS.


PMID: 32869552 

