
1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2020 Sep 14. pii: AAC.01432-20. doi:
10.1128/AAC.01432-20. [Epub ahead of print]

In Vitro Activity of WCK 5222 (Cefepime-Zidebactam) against Worldwide Collected
Gram-Negative Bacilli Not Susceptible to Carbapenems.

Karlowsky JA(1)(2), Hackel MA(3), Bouchillon SK(1), Sahm DF(1).

Author information: 
(1)IHMA, Schaumburg, IL, 60173, USA.
(2)Department of Medical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, Max Rady College
of Medicine, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, R3E 0J9, Canada.
(3)IHMA, Schaumburg, IL, 60173, USA mhackel@ihma.com.

WCK 5222 (cefepime-zidebactam, 2g + 1g, q8h) is in clinical development for the
treatment of infections caused by carbapenem-resistant and multidrug-resistant
(MDR) Gram-negative bacilli. We determined in vitro susceptibility of 1,385
clinical isolates of carbapenem not susceptible Enterobacterales, MDR Pseudomonas
aeruginosa (also carbapenem not susceptible), Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, and
Burkholderia spp. collected worldwide (49 countries) during 2014-2016 to
cefepime-zidebactam (1:1 ratio), ceftazidime-avibactam, imipenem-relebactam,
ceftolozane-tazobactam, and colistin using CLSI broth microdilution method.
Cefepime-zidebactam inhibited 98.5% of carbapenem not susceptible
Enterobacterales (n=1,018) at ≤8 μg/ml (provisional
cefepime-zidebactam-susceptible MIC breakpoint). Against the subset of
metallo-β-lactamase (MBL)-positive Enterobacterales (n=214), cefepime-zidebactam 
inhibited 94.9% of isolates at ≤8 μg/ml. Further, it inhibited 99.6% of MDR P.
aeruginosa (n=262) isolates at ≤32 μg/ml (proposed
cefepime-zidebactam-susceptible pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic MIC breakpoint), 
including all MBL-positive isolates (n=94). Moreover, cefepime-zidebactam was
active against the majority of isolates of Enterobacterales (≥95%) and P.
aeruginosa (99%) that were not susceptible to ceftazidime-avibactam,
ceftolozane-tazobactam, imipenem-relebactam and colistin. Most isolates (99%) of 
S. maltophilia (n=101; MIC50, 8 μg/ml; MIC90, 32 μg/ml) and Burkholderia spp.
(n=4; MIC range, 16-32 μg/ml) were also inhibited by cefepime-zidebactam at ≤32
μg/ml. The activity of cefepime-zidebactam against carbapenem-resistant
Gram-negatives is ascribed to its β-lactam enhancer mechanism of action (i.e.,
zidebactam binding to PBP2 and its universal stability to both serine
β-lactamases and MBLs). The results from this study support the continued
development of cefepime-zidebactam as a potential therapy for infections caused
by Enterobacterales, P. aeruginosa, and other non-fermentative Gram-negative
bacilli where resistance to marketed antimicrobial agents is a limiting factor.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01432-20 
PMID: 32928739 

