
1. Antioxidants (Basel). 2019 Nov 23;8(12). pii: E580. doi: 10.3390/antiox8120580.

Effect of Marine Bacteria and Ulvan on the Activity of Antioxidant Defense
Enzymes and the Bio-Protection of Papaya Fruit against Colletotrichum
gloeosporioides.

Chiquito-Contreras RG(1), Murillo-Amador B(2), Carmona-Hernandez S(1),
Chiquito-Contreras CJ(1), Hernandez-Montiel LG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Facultad de Ciencias Agrícolas, Universidad Veracruzana, Campus Xalapa,
Circuito Universitario Gonzalo Aguirre Beltrán s/n, Zona Universitaria, Xalapa
91090, Ver., Mexico.
(2)Centro de Investigaciones Biológicas del Noroeste (CIBNOR), Calle Instituto
Politécnico Nacional 195, Col. Playa Palo de Santa Rita Sur, La Paz 23096,
B.C.S., Mexico.

Anthracnose, caused by Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, is one of the most
important diseases in papaya fruit. Its control has been achieved with synthetic 
fungicides, but the application of marine bacteria and the sulphated
polysaccharide ulvan (structural description: β[1,4]-D-GlcA-α[1,4]-L-Rha 3
sulfate, β[1,4]-L-IdoA-α[1,4]-L-Rha 3 sulfate, β[1,4]-D-Xyl-α[1,4]-L-Rha 3
sulfate, and β[1,4]-D-Xyl 2-sulfate-α[1,4]-L-Rha 3 sulfate) from Ulva sp. can be 
an alternative in the use of agrochemicals. Thus, the objective of this study was
to assess the effect in vitro and in vivo of two marine bacteria,
Stenotrophomonas rhizophila and Bacillus amyloliquefaciens, and ulvan in papaya
fruit's bio-protection against C. gloeosporioides. The capacity of marine
bacteria to inhibit mycelial growth and phytopathogen spore germination in vitro 
through volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and carbohydrate competition was
evaluated. Fruit was inoculated with bacteria, ulvan, and C. gloeosporioides and 
incubated at 25 °C and 90% of relative humidity (RH) for seven days. Disease
incidence (%), lesion diameter (mm), and antioxidant defense enzyme activity
(such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and peroxidase (POD) were
quantified. In vitro, C. gloeosporioides was inhibited by S. rhizophila and B.
amyloliquefaciens. In vivo, disease incidence and the lesion diameter of
anthracnose on papaya fruit were significantly reduced by marine bacteria and
ulvan. Antioxidant defense enzyme activity played an important role in fruit
bio-protection against C. gloeosporioides. The application of marine bacteria and
ulvan can be an alternative in the sustainable postharvest management of papaya.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox8120580 
PMCID: PMC6943524
PMID: 31771146 

