
1. Environ Microbiol Rep. 2020 Sep 9. doi: 10.1111/1758-2229.12884. [Epub ahead of
print]

Growth of Stenotrophomonas maltophilia and expression of Sme efflux pumps
encoding genes in the presence of supernatants from amoebal and bacterial
co-cultures: towards the role of amoebal secondary metabolites.

Denet E(1), Triadou S(1), Michalet S(1), Nazaret S(1), Favre-Bonté S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Université Lyon 1, Research Group on Environmental Multi-Resistance and
Bacterial Efflux, UMR CNRS 5557/ UMR INRAe 1418 Ecologie Microbienne, 43
Boulevard du 11 Novembre 1918, Villeurbanne Cedex, 69622, France.

Resistance-Nodulation-Division (RND) efflux pumps are relevant determinants of
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia multidrug resistance as they can extrude a broad
range of antibiotics and compounds involved in virulence and physiological
functions. S. maltophilia, an environmental bacterium, was shown to be associated
with amoebae and able to multiply inside them. To explore whether S. maltophilia 
RND efflux pumps play a role when interacting with amoebae, we evaluated the
effect of amoebal culture and co-culture supernatants on the growth of S.
maltophilia and the expression of sme efflux pump genes. Acanthamoeba castellanii
and Willaertia magna were used as amoebal models and strain S. maltophilia BurE1 
as bacterial one. Our data showed that both bacterial growth and sme gene
expression were not modified by amoebal culture supernatants. On the contrary,
co-culture supernatants negatively impacted the growth of BurE1 and induced the
expression of three out of eight efflux pump genes, i.e. smeE, smeN and smeZ.
Finally, we evidenced the production of A. castellanii secondary metabolites,
putatively belonging to the diterpene family, in the amoebal supernatant and in
the co-culture supernatant of A. castellanii and BurE1. Whether these compounds
act directly as substrates of the efflux pumps and/or inducers of the sme genes
need further investigations.

© 2020 Society for Applied Microbiology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1758-2229.12884 
PMID: 32902135 

