
1. R Soc Open Sci. 2019 Nov 6;6(11):190562. doi: 10.1098/rsos.190562. eCollection
2019 Nov.

Biotransformation of chlorothalonil by strain Stenotrophomonas acidaminiphila BJ1
isolated from farmland soil.

Zhang Q(1), Liu H(1), Saleem M(2), Wang C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Lab of Integrated Crop Pest Management of Shandong Province, College of
Plant Health and Medicine, Qingdao Agricultural University, Qingdao 266109,
People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Alabama State University, Montgomery, AL
36101, USA.

Chlorothalonil is a widely used fungicide, but the contamination of soil and
water environments by this chemical causes potential threats to biodiversity.
Given the metabolic potential of soil microorganisms, there is a need for
developing microbiological approaches to degrade persistent compounds, such as
chlorothalonil, in contaminated sites. Here in this study, we isolated a
bacterial strain (namely, BJ1) capable of degrading chlorothalonil from a
chlorothalonil-contaminated farmland soil in the Shandong Province, China. Using 
16S rDNA gene sequencing, morphological and biological characteristics, we
identified the strain BJ1 as Stenotrophomonas acidaminiphila. The strain BJ1 uses
chlorothalonil as a sole carbon source. At initial concentrations of 50, 100, 200
and 300 mg l-1, it degraded 91.5%, 89.4%, 86.5% and 83.5% of chlorothalonil after
96 h of inoculation under optimum conditions (30°C and pH 7.0). Two metabolites, 
methyl-2,5,6-trichloro-3-cyano-4-methoxy-benzoate and
methyl-3-cyano-2,4,5,6-tetrachlorobenzoate, were detected and identified based on
HPLC-MS analysis, which suggests that the strain BJ1 metabolized chlorothalonil
through the hydroxylation of chloro-group and hydration of cyano-group. The
results of this study highlight the great potential for this bacterium to be used
in chlorothalonil pollution remediation.

© 2019 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1098/rsos.190562 
PMCID: PMC6894561
PMID: 31827822 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

