
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Jul 12;21(14). pii: E4922. doi: 10.3390/ijms21144922.

Comparative Genomics of Stenotrophomonas maltophilia and Stenotrophomonas
rhizophila Revealed Characteristic Features of Both Species.

Pinski A(1), Zur J(1), Hasterok R(1), Hupert-Kocurek K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biology, Biotechnology and Environmental Protection, Faculty of
Natural Sciences, University of Silesia in Katowice, 28 Jagiellonska Street,
40-032 Katowice, Poland.

Although Stenotrophomonas maltophilia strains are efficient biocontrol agents,
their field applications have raised concerns due to their possible threat to
human health. The non-pathogenic Stenotrophomonas rhizophila species, which is
closely related to S. maltophilia, has been proposed as an alternative. However, 
knowledge regarding the genetics of S. rhizophila is limited. Thus, the aim of
the study was to define any genetic differences between the species and to
characterise their ability to promote the growth of plant hosts as well as to
enhance phytoremediation efficiency. We compared 37 strains that belong to both
species using the tools of comparative genomics and identified 96 genetic
features that are unique to S. maltophilia (e.g., chitin-binding protein,
mechanosensitive channels of small conductance and KGG repeat-containing
stress-induced protein) and 59 that are unique to S. rhizophila (e.g.,
glucosylglycerol-phosphate synthase, cold shock protein with the DUF1294 domain, 
and pteridine-dependent dioxygenase-like protein). The strains from both species 
have a high potential for biocontrol, which is mainly related to the production
of keratinases (KerSMD and KerSMF), proteinases and chitinases. Plant growth
promotion traits are attributed to the biosynthesis of siderophores, spermidine, 
osmoprotectants such as trehalose and glucosylglycerol, which is unique to S.
rhizophila. In eight out of 37 analysed strains, the genes that are required to
degrade protocatechuate were present. While our results show genetic differences 
between the two species, they had a similar growth promotion potential.
Considering the information above, S. rhizophila constitutes a promising
alternative for S. maltophilia for use in agricultural biotechnology.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21144922 
PMCID: PMC7404187
PMID: 32664682 

