
1. PeerJ. 2020 Jul 10;8:e9514. doi: 10.7717/peerj.9514. eCollection 2020.

Methylobacterium, a major component of the culturable bacterial endophyte
community of wild Brassica seed.

Roodi D(1)(2)(3), Millner JP(1), McGill C(1), Johnson RD(3), Jauregui R(4), Card 
SD(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Agriculture & Environment, Massey University, Palmerston North,
Manawatu, New Zealand.
(2)Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO), Seed and 
Plant Improvement Institute, Karaj, Alborz, Iran.
(3)Forage Science, AgResearch Limited, Grasslands Research Centre, Palmerston
North, Manawatu, New Zealand.
(4)Knowledge & Analytics, AgResearch Limited, Grasslands Research Centre,
Palmerston North, Manawatu, New Zealand.

Background: Plants are commonly colonized by a wide diversity of microbial
species and the relationships created can range from mutualistic through to
parasitic. Microorganisms that typically form symptomless associations with
internal plant tissues are termed endophytes. Endophytes associate with most
plant species found in natural and managed ecosystems. They are extremely
important plant partners that provide improved stress tolerance to the host
compared with plants that lack this symbiosis. Plant domestication has reduced
endophyte diversity and therefore the wild relatives of many crop species remain 
untapped reservoirs of beneficial microbes. Brassica species display immense
diversity and consequently provide the greatest assortment of products used by
humans from a single plant genus important for agriculture, horticulture,
bioremediation, medicine, soil conditioners, composting crops, and in the
production of edible and industrial oils. Many endophytes are horizontally
transmitted, but some can colonize the plant's reproductive tissues, and this
gives these symbionts an efficient mechanism of propagation via plant seed
(termed vertical transmission).
Methods: This study surveyed 83 wild and landrace Brassica accessions composed of
14 different species with a worldwide distribution for seed-originating bacterial
endophytes. Seed was stringently disinfected, sown within sterile tissue culture 
pots within a sterile environment and incubated. After approximately 1-month,
direct isolation techniques were used to recover bacterial endophytes from roots 
and shoots of symptomless plants. Bacteria were identified based on the PCR
amplification of partial 16S rDNA gene sequences and annotated using the BLASTn
program against the NCBI rRNA database. A diversity index was used as a
quantitative measure to reflect how many different bacterial species there were
in the seed-originating microbial community of the Brassica accessions sampled.
Results: Bacterial endophytes were recovered from the majority of the Brassica
accessions screened. 16S rDNA gene sequencing identified 19 different bacterial
species belonging to three phyla, namely Actinobacteria, Firmicutes and
Proteobacteria with the most frequently isolated species being Methylobacterium
fujisawaense, Stenotrophomonas rhizophila and Pseudomonas lactis.
Methylobacterium was the dominant genus composing 56% of the culturable isolated 
bacterial community and was common in 77% of accessions possessing culturable
bacterial endophytes. Two selected isolates of Methylobacterium significantly
promoted plant growth when inoculated into a cultivar of oilseed rape and
inhibited the growth of the pathogen Leptosphaeria maculans in dual culture. This
is the first report that investigates the seed-originating endophytic
microorganisms of wild Brassica species and highlights the Brassica microbiome as
a resource for plant growth promoting bacteria and biological control agents.

Â© 2020 Roodi et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.9514 
PMCID: PMC7357558
PMID: 32728495 

Conflict of interest statement: Davood Roodi is employed by Seed and Plant
Improvement Institute. Stuart D. Card, Richard D. Johnson and Ruy Jauregui are
employed by AgResearch Limited.

