
1. Environ Anal Health Toxicol. 2020 Sep;35(3):e2020018-0. doi:
10.5620/eaht.2020018. Epub 2020 Sep 28.

Prevalence of antibiotic-resistant, toxic metal-tolerant and biofilm-forming
bacteria in hospital surroundings.

Nath S(1)(2)(3), Sinha A(1), Singha YS(1), Dey A(1), Bhattacharjee N(1), Deb
B(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Gurucharan College, Silchar, Assam, India.
(2)Bioinformatics Centre, Gurucharan College, Silchar, Assam, India.
(3)Institutional Biotech Hub, Gurucharan College, Silchar, Assam, India.

The emergence and rapid spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria due to unethical 
and non-scientific disposal of hospital wastes and clinical by-products caused an
alarming environmental concern and associated public health risks. The present
study aims to assess the co-selection of antibiotic resistance and heavy metal
tolerance by bacteria isolated from hospital effluents. These isolates were also 
tested for hemolytic activity, pH-tolerance, thermal inactivation,
auto-aggregation, cell-surface hydrophobicity and interaction with other
bacteria. The study reports the prevalence of antibiotic-resistant and heavy
metal tolerant bacteria in clinical effluents and water samples. Most of these
isolates were resistant to vancomycin, clindamycin, ampicillin, rifampicin,
penicillin-G, methicillin and cefdinir, and evidenced the production of
extended-spectrum β-lactamase enzyme. Toxic metals such as cadmium, copper, iron,
lead and zinc also exert a selection pressure towards antibiotic resistance.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain GCC_19W3, Bacillus sp. strain GCC_19S2 and
Achromobacter spanius strain GCC_SB1 showed β-hemolysis, evidenced by the
complete breakdown of the red blood cells. Highest auto-aggregation was exhibited
by Bacillus sp. strain GCC_19S2; whereas, maximum cell-surface hydrophobicity was
displayed by P. aeruginosa strain GCC_19W1. Antagonistic activity by
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia strain GCC_19W2, P. aeruginosa strain GCC_19W3 and
strains of Achromobacter restricts the growth of other microorganisms by
producing some bactericidal substances. The study emphasises undertaking safety
measures for the disposal of clinical effluents directly into the environment.
The study suggests adopting necessary measures and regulations to restrict the
spread of emerging pathogens within the hospital biome and community, which if
unnoticed, might pose a significant clinical challenge.

DOI: 10.5620/eaht.2020018 
PMID: 32979903 

