
1. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Jul 21;17(14). pii: E5248. doi:
10.3390/ijerph17145248.

Suppression of Rice Blast by Bacterial Strains Isolated from Cultivated Soda
Saline-Sodic Soils.

Wei Y(1), Li L(1), Hu W(1), Ju H(1), Zhang M(1), Qin Q(1), Zhang S(1), Li
G(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Plant Sciences, Jilin University, Changchun 130062, China.
(2)Department of Plant Protection, Shenyang Agricultural University, Shenyang
110866, China.

Rice blast caused by Magnaporthe oryzae is one of the most serious rice diseases 
worldwide. Biological control is gaining popularity as a promising method for the
control of this disease; however, more effective microbial strains with strong
adaptability in rice fields need to be identified. Here, we report for the first 
time the successful identification of biocontrol bacterial strains from frozen
soils of the soda saline-sodic land. We isolated 82 bacterial strains from rice
fields in the western Songnen Plain of China, one of the three major soda saline 
soils in the world. Five of the isolated strains exhibited strong inhibition to
M. oryzae growth. The potential strains were identified as Bacillus safensis
JLS5, Pseudomonas koreensis JLS8, Pseudomonas saponiphila JLS10, Stenotrophomonas
rhizophila JLS11 and Bacillus tequilensis JLS12, respectively, by 16s RNA gene
sequence analysis. The antagonistic assay and the artificial inoculation tests
showed that JLS5 and JLS12 could effectively inhibit conidial germination and
pathogenicity of the rice blast fungus, both preventively and curatively. The
suppression of pathogenicity was further confirmed by greenhouse experiments,
showing the effectiveness of JLS5 and JLS12 as a potential biological control
agents of M. oryzae. The potential application of these cold-tolerant strains for
rice blast control in cold regions is discussed. Our data suggest that soda
saline-sodic soils are a rich source for biocontrol strain isolation.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17145248 
PMCID: PMC7400292
PMID: 32708144 

