
1. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2020 Apr;70(4):300-309. doi: 10.1111/lam.13272. Epub 2020
Jan 24.

Forest soil bacteria able to produce homo and copolymers of polyhydroxyalkanoates
from several pure and waste carbon sources.

Clifton-García B(1), González-Reynoso O(1), Robledo-Ortiz JR(2), Villafaña-Rojas 
J(3), González-García Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ingeniería Química, Universidad de Guadalajara, Jalisco,
México.
(2)Departamento de Madera, Celulosa y Papel Universidad de Guadalajara, Jalisco, 
México.
(3)Departamento de Química, Universidad Autónoma de Guadalajara, Jalisco, México.

Two bacterial strains able to produce polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs) from a wide
variety of pure carbon sources (dextrose, xylose, sucrose, lactose and glycerol) 
were isolated from forest soils and identified as Achromobacter mucicolens and
Stenotrophomonas rhizophila. Achromobacter mucicolens also produced
poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (PHB) from different wastes (cheese whey, molasses, agave
bagasse hydrolysate, nejayote and mango waste pulp). Stenotrophomonas rhizophila,
produced the copolymer poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate) (PHB-co-HV)
from glycerol (7·7 mol% of HV), and from sucrose with addition of propionic or
valeric acid (4·5 and 25 mol% of HV, respectively). The copolymers presented a
lower melting point (145, 156 and 127°C) and crystallinity (23, 26 and 16%) than 
PHB. The maximum biopolymer accumulation (PHB) for each strain growing in pure
carbon source was as follows: 31·3 g per 100 g dry cell weight (DCW) for A.
mucicolens from xylose; and 13·7 g per 100 g DCW for S. rhizophila from sucrose. 
Regarding the waste carbon sources, the highest PHB accumulation was obtained
from agave bagasse hydrolysate (20·4 g per 100 g DCW) by A. mucicolens. The
molecular weights of the biopolymers obtained ranged from 200 to 741 kDa.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: The economic cost of the carbon source for 
the culture of polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs)-producing microorganisms is one of
the main process limitations. Therefore, it is vital to find versatile
microorganisms able to grow and to accumulate homo and copolymers of PHAs from
low-cost substrates. In this research, we report two bacterial strains that
produce poly(3-hydroxybutyrate), poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate) or 
both from at least five pure and five waste carbon sources. These results, by
such bacterial strains have not been reported, especially the production of
copolymer from glycerol without addition of precursors by Stenotrophomonas
rhizophila and the production of PHB from xylose and agave bagasse hydrolysate by
Achromobacter mucicolens.

© 2019 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.13272 
PMID: 31891417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

