
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Jun 4;9(6). pii: E302. doi: 10.3390/antibiotics9060302.

Proteomic Characterization of Antibiotic Resistance, and Production of
Antimicrobial and Virulence Factors in Streptococcus Species Associated with
Bovine Mastitis. Could Enzybiotics Represent Novel Therapeutic Agents Against
These Pathogens?

Abril AG(1), Carrera M(2), Böhme K(3), Barros-Velázquez J(4), Rama JR(1),
Calo-Mata P(4), Sánchez-Pérez A(5), Villa TG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiología y Parasitología, Facultad de Farmacia, Campus
Sur, Universidad de Santiago de Compostela, 15782 Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(2)Marine Research Institute (IIM), Spanish National Research Council (CSIC),
Eduardo Cabello 6, 36208 Vigo, Spain.
(3)Agroalimentary Technological Center of Lugo, Montirón 154, 27002 Lugo, Spain.
(4)Departamento de Química Analítica, Nutrición y Bromatología, Area de
Tecnología de los Alimentos, Facultad de Veterinaria, Campus Lugo, Universidad de
Santiago de Compostela, 27002 Lugo, Spain.
(5)Sydney School of Veterinary Science, Faculty of Science, University of Sydney,
Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

Streptococcus spp. are major mastitis pathogens present in dairy products, which 
produce a variety of virulence factors that are involved in streptococcal
pathogenicity. These include neuraminidase, pyrogenic exotoxin, and M protein,
and in addition they might produce bacteriocins and antibiotic-resistance
proteins. Unjustifiable misuse of antimicrobials has led to an increase in
antibiotic-resistant bacteria present in foodstuffs. Identification of the
mastitis-causing bacterial strain, as well as determining its antibiotic
resistance and sensitivity is crucial for effective therapy. The present work
focused on the LC-ESI-MS/MS (liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem
mass spectrometry) analysis of tryptic digestion peptides from mastitis-causing
Streptococcus spp. isolated from milk. A total of 2706 non-redundant peptides
belonging to 2510 proteins was identified and analyzed. Among them, 168 peptides 
were determined, representing proteins that act as virulence factors, toxins,
anti-toxins, provide resistance to antibiotics that are associated with the
production of lantibiotic-related compounds, or play a role in the resistance to 
toxic substances. Protein comparisons with the NCBI database allowed the
identification of 134 peptides as specific to Streptococcus spp., while two
peptides (EATGNQNISPNLTISNAQLNLEDKNK and DLWC*NM*IIAAK) were found to be
species-specific to Streptococcus dysgalactiae. This proteomic repository might
be useful for further studies and research work, as well as for the development
of new therapeutics for the mastitis-causing Streptococcus strains.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9060302 
PMCID: PMC7344566
PMID: 32512932 

