
1. BMC Vet Res. 2020 Jun 3;16(1):174. doi: 10.1186/s12917-020-02382-8.

Gangrenous mastitis in dromedary camels in UAE caused by Streptococcus
agalactiae.

El Tigani-Asil ETA(1), Abdelwahab GE(1), Veedu JTVP(1), Khalafalla AI(1), Mohamed
ZSA(1), Ishag HZA(2), Shah AAM(1), Alhosani MAA(1), Al Muhairi SSM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary laboratories, Animal Wealth Sector, Abu Dhabi Agriculture and Food 
Safety Authority (ADAFSA), Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
(2)Veterinary laboratories, Animal Wealth Sector, Abu Dhabi Agriculture and Food 
Safety Authority (ADAFSA), Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
hassan.ishag@adafsa.gov.ae.

BACKGROUND: Mastitis is a disease of economic concern that affects dairy industry
worldwide. This study aimed to investigate and identify possible etiologies
encountered in an episode of acute gangrenous mastitis in lactating she-camels in
Al Dhafra region, Abu Dhabi Emirate, United Arab Emirates (UAE). Beside the
routine clinical examination, conventional bacteriological methods were used to
isolate and identify possible aerobic/anaerobic bacterial or fungal pathogens
from cultured milk samples collected from the mastitic she-camels. Moreover,
quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was used for the
detection of Mycoplasma agalactiae and Mycoplasma bovis strains, and the 16S rRNA
gene was sequenced to confirm the isolation. The isolates were also tested for
their susceptibility to antimicrobials.
RESULTS: Acute gangrenous mastitis is reported in the dromedary camel herd with
about 80% morbidity rate among lactating she-camels exhibited acute, painful hard
swelling of affected teat, quarter or entire udder. About 41.7% of the infected
animals were stamped out for culling due to complete or partial amputation of
udder quarters. Streptococcus agalactiae was the sole isolated organism (6
isolates). The antimicrobial susceptibility testing revealed that, the
Streptococcus agalactiae isolates were sensitive to both penicillin and
ampicillin. Comparison of the 16S rRNA gene sequencing results by BLASTN
confirmed the presence of Streptococcus agalactiae with high confidence (100%
identity). Phylogenetic analysis indicated clustering of one isolate (CMAUAE
accession number; MN267805.1) with Streptococcus agalactiae that infects
multi-hosts including humans, while strains (CMBUAE to CMFUAE with accession
numbers; MN267806.1 to MN267810.1 respectively) clustered with Streptococcus
agalactiae that infects humans. No Mycoplasma spp was detected by qPCR analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: In the present study, the Streptococcus agalactiae was found to be
the main cause of acute gangrenous mastitis in dromedary camels in UAE. More
research should be done to investigate other possible causes of clinical or
subclinical mastitis in dromedary camels in UAE.

DOI: 10.1186/s12917-020-02382-8 
PMCID: PMC7271422
PMID: 32493341 

