
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 May 15;11:797. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00797. eCollection
2020.

Emerging Threat of Antimicrobial Resistance in β-Hemolytic Streptococci.

Oppegaard O(1), Skrede S(2), Mylvaganam H(3), Kittang BR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.
(2)Department of Clinical Science, Faculty of Medicine, University of Bergen,
Bergen, Norway.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.
(4)Department of Medicine, Haraldsplass Deaconess Hospital, Bergen, Norway.

Highly variable resistance rates to erythromycin and clindamycin have been
reported in the β-hemolytic streptococcal species Streptococcus pyogenes,
Streptococcus agalactiae, and Streptococcus dysgalactiae, depending on geographic
and temporal context. In the present study we aimed to examine the longitudinal
trends of antimicrobial resistance in these three species in a northern European 
setting. Furthermore, we used whole genome sequencing to identify resistance
determinants and the mobile genetic elements involved in their dissemination, as 
well as elucidate phylogenetic relationships. All cases of invasive β-hemolytic
streptococcal diseases in Health Region Bergen, western Norway, in the period
2004 to 2018 were retrospectively identified, comprising 271, 358, and 280 cases 
of S. pyogenes, S. agalactiae, and S. dysgalactiae, respectively. Antimicrobial
susceptibility testing revealed a gradual but significant increase in
erythromycin and clindamycin resistance for S. agalactiae and S. dysgalactiae
during the study period. Whole genome sequencing of the erythromycin and
clindamycin resistant bacterial population revealed a substantial phylogenetic
diversity in S. agalactiae and S. dysgalactiae. However, the mobile genetic
elements harboring the resistance determinants showed remarkable intra- and
interspecies similarities, suggesting a dissemination of antimicrobial resistance
predominantly through conjugative transfer rather than clonal expansion of
resistant strains in these two species. Conversely, antimicrobial resistance in
S. pyogenes remained low, apart from a transient outbreak of a clindamycin and
erythromycin resistant emm11/ST403-clone in 2010-2012. Increased epidemiological 
attentiveness is warranted to monitor the emerging threat of antimicrobial
resistance in β-hemolytic streptococci, particularly in S. agalactiae and S.
dysgalactiae.

Copyright © 2020 Oppegaard, Skrede, Mylvaganam and Kittang.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00797 
PMCID: PMC7242567
PMID: 32477287 

