
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Sep 4. pii: S0022-0302(20)30668-8. doi: 10.3168/jds.2020-18672.
[Epub ahead of print]

Short communication: Genome-wide identification of new reference genes for
reverse-transcription quantitative PCR in Streptococcus thermophilus based on
RNA-sequencing analysis.

Xiong ZQ(1), Fan YZ(1), Song X(1), Xia YJ(1), Zhang H(1), Ai LZ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Shanghai Engineering Research Center of Food Microbiology, School of Medical
Instrument and Food Engineering, University of Shanghai for Science and
Technology, Shanghai 200093, China.
(2)Shanghai Engineering Research Center of Food Microbiology, School of Medical
Instrument and Food Engineering, University of Shanghai for Science and
Technology, Shanghai 200093, China. Electronic address: ailianzhong1@126.com.

Streptococcus thermophilus, one of the most important industrial lactic acid
bacteria, is widely used for the production of fermented dairy products such as
yogurt and cheese. The accuracy of gene expression-based analyses (e.g.,
reverse-transcription quantitative real-time PCR) relies heavily on the selection
of reliable reference genes (RG), which provides the basis for correctly
interpreting expression data. However, many traditional RG are not stably
expressed in different systems. Here we used RNA-sequencing to systematically
investigate gene expression variation at the genome scale and identify more
stable RG in S. thermophilus. In total, 21 putative candidate RG were identified 
with variation coefficient values <10.0 based on the expression of all 1,911
genes under 4 different experimental conditions. We selected and validated 12 RG 
chosen from transcriptomes by using reverse-transcription quantitative real-time 
PCR, and ranked their expression stability by statistical algorithms geNorm and
NormFinder. Compared with traditional RG 16S rRNA, genes encoding glycine-tRNA
ligase subunit β GlyS and fatty acid-binding protein DegV were more stable under 
all 4 treatments, which have never been used as RG in S. thermophilus. Our
finding provides the foundation for more precise analysis of gene expression in
S. thermophilus and other lactic acid bacteria species.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-18672 
PMID: 32896392 

