
1. Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 May;97(1):115013. doi:
10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2020.115013. Epub 2020 Feb 5.

Worldwide surveillance of Iclaprim activity: In Vitro susceptibility of
gram-positive pathogens collected from patients with skin and skin structure
infections from 2013 to 2017.

Huang DB(1), Charrier C(2), Hawser S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Motif BioSciences, Princeton, New Jersey; Rutgers New Jersey Medical School,
Trenton, New Jersey. Electronic address: david.huang@motifbio.com.
(2)IHMA, Monthey, Switzerland.

Iclaprim is a novel diaminopyrimidine, which inhibits bacterial dihydrofolate
reductase, and it is active against Gram-positive pathogens including emerging
drug-resistant pathogens. In vitro activity of iclaprim and comparators against
1365 Gram-positive clinical isolates from patients with skin and skin structure
infections (SSSI) from the United States, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Europe,
Africa or Middle East collected between 2013 and 2017 were tested. Susceptibility
testing was performed according to the Clinical and Laboratory Standards
Institute (CLSI) guidelines. Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC)
interpretations were based on CLSI criteria. MIC90 for all S.aureus,
methicillin-susceptible S. aureus, methicillin-resistant S. aureus, Streptococcus
pyogenes, S. agalactiae, S. anginosus, S. constellatus, S. dysgalactiae and S.
intermedius were 0.12, 0.12, 0.5, 0.03, 0.5, ≤0.004, ≤0.004, 0.12, and
0.008 μg/ml, respectively. The MIC for iclaprim was 8 to 32-fold lower than
trimethoprim, the only FDA approved dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor, against
all Gram-positive isolates including resistant phenotypes. Iclaprim demonstrated 
lower MICs than trimethoprim against a collection (2013-2017) of Gram-positive
clinical isolates from patients with SSSI from the United States, Asia Pacific,
Latin America, and Europe.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2020.115013 
PMID: 32081524 

