
1. Cureus. 2020 Jul 12;12(7):e9149. doi: 10.7759/cureus.9149.

Complicated Isolated Liver Abscess Caused by Viridans Group Streptococci Leading 
to Right Hepatectomy.

Ahmed MF(1), Abbasi Z(2), Das S(3), Aggarwal A(4), Sahni S(1)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine, Brookdale University Hospital Medical Center, Brooklyn,
USA.
(2)Internal Medicine, Liaquat University of Medical and Health Sciences,
Jamshoro, PAK.
(3)Internal Medicine, Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center, Brooklyn, USA.
(4)Surgery, Brookdale University Hospital Medical Center, Brooklyn, USA.
(5)Research Medicine, New York Institute of Technology College of Osteopathic
Medicine, New York, USA.
(6)Primary Care, Touro College of Osteopathic Medicine, New York, USA.

Pyogenic liver abscesses (PLAs) secondary to bacterial etiologies are most often 
seen in developing countries and are less common in North America. The
predominant etiology is infection occurring in the setting of direct extension of
hepatobiliary or intestinal infection. The most common pathogen isolated from a
PLA in the United States is Escherichia coli, whereas Streptococcus viridans is a
rare entity in the developed world. Herein we report a rare case of a complicated
isolated PLA in a patient without any known comorbidities which lead to
hepatectomy. The patient was born and raised in the United States with no recent 
travel history. The patient was found to have 10 cm isolated multicystic mass on 
imaging confirmed later as vancomycin-resistant Streptococcus viridans PLA. The
patient was treated with multiple intravenous antibiotics and underwent multiple 
ultrasound-guided percutaneous abscess drainages by interventional radiology, but
all unsuccessful. The patient underwent right posterior liver lobectomy,
thereafter making a quick recovery and was discharged. Our case underlines the
significance of considering liver abscess as a differential even in previously
healthy individuals with no known prior comorbid conditions, as prompt
recognition is imperative in preventing morbidity and mortality.

Copyright Â© 2020, Ahmed et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.9149 
PMCID: PMC7417323
PMID: 32789086 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

