
1. PLoS Genet. 2020 Jul 30;16(7):e1008779. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1008779.
eCollection 2020 Jul.

The DEAD-box RNA helicase CshA is required for fatty acid homeostasis in
Staphylococcus aureus.

Khemici V(1), Prados J(1), Petrignani B(1), Di Nolfi B(1), Berg√© E(1), Manzano
C(1), Giraud C(1), Linder P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.

Comment in
    PLoS Genet. 2020 Jul 30;16(7):e1008842.

Staphylococcus aureus is an opportunistic pathogen that can grow in a wide array 
of conditions: on abiotic surfaces, on the skin, in the nose, in planktonic or
biofilm forms and can cause many type of infections. Consequently, S. aureus must
be able to adapt rapidly to these changing growth conditions, an ability largely 
driven at the posttranscriptional level. RNA helicases of the DEAD-box family
play an important part in this process. In particular, CshA, which is part of the
degradosome, is required for the rapid turnover of certain mRNAs and its deletion
results in cold-sensitivity. To understand the molecular basis of this phenotype,
we conducted a large genetic screen isolating 82 independent suppressors of cold 
growth. Full genome sequencing revealed the fatty acid synthesis pathway affected
in many suppressor strains. Consistent with that result, sublethal doses of
triclosan, a FASII inhibitor, can partially restore growth of a cshA mutant in
the cold. Overexpression of the genes involved in branched-chain fatty acid
synthesis was also able to suppress the cold-sensitivity. Using gas
chromatography analysis of fatty acids, we observed an imbalance of straight and 
branched-chain fatty acids in the cshA mutant, compared to the wild-type. This
imbalance is compensated in the suppressor strains. Thus, we reveal for the first
time that the cold sensitive growth phenotype of a DEAD-box mutant can be
explained, at least partially, by an improper membrane composition. The defect
correlates with an accumulation of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex mRNA, which
is inefficiently degraded in absence of CshA. We propose that the resulting
accumulation of acetyl-CoA fuels straight-chained fatty acid production at the
expense of the branched ones. Strikingly, addition of acetate into the medium
mimics the cshA deletion phenotype, resulting in cold sensitivity suppressed by
the mutations found in our genetic screen or by sublethal doses of triclosan.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1008779 
PMCID: PMC7392221
PMID: 32730248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

