
1. Front Pediatr. 2020 Sep 2;8:519. doi: 10.3389/fped.2020.00519. eCollection 2020.

Azithromycin Prescribing by Respiratory Pediatricians in Australia and New
Zealand for Chronic Wet Cough: A Questionnaire-Based Survey.

Chellew N(1), Chang AB(2)(3), Grimwood K(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Gold Coast Health, Southport, QLD, Australia.
(2)Department of Respiratory and Sleep Medicine, Queensland Children's Hospital
and Australian Centre for Health Services Innovation, Queensland University of
Technology, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(3)Child Health Division, Menzies School of Health Research, Charles Darwin
University, Darwin, NT, Australia.
(4)School of Medicine and Menzies Health Institute Queensland, Griffith
University, Gold Coast Campus, Southport, QLD, Australia.

Aims: To determine how respiratory pediatricians across Australia and New Zealand
prescribe azithromycin for children with chronic wet cough, including recurrent
protracted bacterial bronchitis, chronic suppurative lung disease (CSLD) and
bronchiectasis. Methods: A prospective web-based questionnaire was emailed to
members of the Pediatric Special Interest Group of the Thoracic Society of
Australia and New Zealand (TSANZ) between April and May 2018. It comprised eight 
demographic and 15 clinically focused questions. Results: Of the 73 respiratory
pediatricians listed across Australia and New Zealand, 29 (40%) responded and all
prescribed azithromycin for chronic wet cough. Twelve (41%) indicated that they
would consider prescribing a short-course (2-4 weeks) of azithromycin for
children with a chronic wet cough. Although most respondents reported prescribing
long-term (>4-weeks) azithromycin for either CSLD (n = 23, 79%) or bronchiectasis
(n = 24, 83%), only nine (31%) respondents would commence treatment if in the
previous 12-months these children experienced three non-hospitalized
exacerbations and just 12 (41%) would do so if there had been two
hospitalisations for severe exacerbations during the same period in accordance
with the TSANZ national guidelines. A lower threshold for prescribing
azithromycin was described for Indigenous children or if co-morbidities were
present. None prescribed azithromycin for >24-months. Macrolide-resistance was
reported in Streptococcus pneumoniae and Staphylococcus aureus. Conclusion:
Although Australian and New Zealand respiratory pediatricians in this survey
prescribed azithromycin for chronic wet cough most often in children with either 
CSLD or bronchiectasis, many did so outside the current national guidelines.
Reasons for this need exploring.

Copyright Â© 2020 Chellew, Chang and Grimwood.

DOI: 10.3389/fped.2020.00519 
PMCID: PMC7492546
PMID: 32984223 

