
1. Biosens Bioelectron. 2020 Oct 1;165:112366. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2020.112366. Epub
2020 Jun 8.

An on-site, highly specific immunosensor for Escherichia coli detection in field 
milk samples from mastitis-affected dairy cattle.

Zhang J(1), Jiang Y(2), Xia X(2), Wu J(3), Almeida R(4), Eda S(5), Qi H(6).

Author information: 
(1)School of Electronic Science and Applied Physics, Hefei University of
Technology, Hefei, 230009, China; Department of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, The University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN, 37996, USA.
(2)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, The University of
Tennessee, Knoxville, TN, 37996, USA.
(3)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, The University of
Tennessee, Knoxville, TN, 37996, USA. Electronic address: jaynewu@utk.edu.
(4)Department of Animal Science, The University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN,
37996, USA.
(5)Department of Forestry, Wildlife & Fisheries, The University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, TN, 37996, USA.
(6)School of Electronic Science and Applied Physics, Hefei University of
Technology, Hefei, 230009, China.

Bovine mastitis is the most economically important infectious disease in dairy
industry, and Escherichia coli (E. coli) is one of the major causative pathogens.
Rapid identification and quantitative detection of E. coli are of great
importance for bovine mastitis control and milk quality monitoring. Capitalizing 
on dielectrophoresis and interphase capacitance sensing, we have developed an
immunosensor for E. coli detection by modifying low cost commercial
microelectrodes with an E. coli specific antibody. The limit of detection reaches
as low as 775 cells/mL within a 15 s' response time, which can satisfy the
requirement for on-site detection and field diagnosis of bovine mastitis. To
demonstrate the sensor's specificity, tests against Staphylococcus aureus and
Streptococcus uberis samples are performed showing negligible responses, and the 
selectivity is calculated to be 3063: 1. Furthermore, a simple pretreatment
protocol is developed for on-site testing of raw milk, which only involves
incubation, centrifugation and dilution steps. Then correct detection of E. coli 
is demonstrated for both artificially inoculated and infected field milk samples.
This immunosensor and the corresponding protocol have advantages in speed,
sensitivity, specificity, operability, and low cost, which make it highly
promising for on-site pathogen detection of bovine mastitis.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2020.112366 
PMID: 32729498 

