
1. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2020 Mar 20. doi: 10.1111/jgh.15042. [Epub ahead of
print]

Intestinal microbiota and its association with colon cancer and red/processed
meat consumption.

Abu-Ghazaleh N(1), Chua WJ(1), Gopalan V(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, Menzies Health Institute Queensland, Griffith University, 
Gold Coast Campus, Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia.

The human colon harbors a high number of microorganisms that were reported to
play a crucial role in colorectal carcinogenesis. In the recent decade, molecular
detection and metabolomic techniques have expanded our knowledge on the role of
specific microbial species in promoting tumorigenesis. In this study, we reviewed
the association between microbial dysbiosis and colorectal carcinoma (CRC).
Various microbial species and their association with colorectal tumorigenesis and
red/processed meat consumption have been reviewed. The literature demonstrated a 
significant abundance of Fusobacterium nucleatum, Streptococcus
bovis/gallolyticus, Escherichia coli, and Bacteroides fragilis in patients with
adenoma or adenocarcinoma compared to healthy individuals. The mechanisms in
which each organism was postulated to promote colon carcinogenesis were collated 
and summarized in this review. These include the microorganisms' ability to
adhere to colon cells; modulate the inhibition of tumor suppressor genes, the
activations of oncogenes, and genotoxicity; and activate downstream targets
responsible for angiogenesis. The role of these microorganisms in conjugation
with meat components including N-nitroso compounds, heterocyclic amines, and heme
was also evident in multiple studies. The outcome of this review supports the
role of red meat consumption in modulating CRC progression and the possibility of
gut microbiome influencing the relationship between CRC and diet. The study also 
demonstrates that microbiota analysis could potentially complement existing
screening methods when detecting colonic lesions.

Â© 2020 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and John Wiley &
Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.15042 
PMID: 32198788 

