
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Apr 21;21(8). pii: E2892. doi: 10.3390/ijms21082892.

The Crystal Structure of a Streptomyces thermoviolaceus Thermophilic Chitinase
Known for Its Refolding Efficiency.

Malecki PH(1), Bejger M(1), Rypniewski W(1), Vorgias CE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences, Noskowskiego
12/14, 61-704 Poznan, Poland.
(2)Department of Biology, Section of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, National
and Kapodistrian University of Athens, 15701 Zografou, Greece.

Analyzing the structure of proteins from extremophiles is a promising way to
study the rules governing the protein structure, because such proteins are
results of structural and functional optimization under well-defined conditions. 
Studying the structure of chitinases addresses an interesting aspect of
enzymology, because chitin, while being the world's second most abundant
biopolymer, is also a recalcitrant substrate. The crystal structure of a
thermostable chitinase from Streptomyces thermoviolaceus (StChi40) has been
solved revealing a β/α-barrel (TIM-barrel) fold with an α+β insertion domain.
This is the first chitinase structure of the multi-chitinase system of S.
thermoviolaceus. The protein is also known to refold efficiently after thermal or
chemical denaturation. StChi40 is structurally close to the catalytic domain of
psychrophilic chitinase B from Arthrobacter TAD20. Differences are noted in
comparison to the previously examined chitinases, particularly in the
substrate-binding cleft. A comparison of the thermophilic enzyme with its
psychrophilic homologue revealed structural features that could be attributed to 
StChi40's thermal stability: compactness of the structure with trimmed surface
loops and unique disulfide bridges, one of which is additionally stabilized by
S-π interactions with aromatic rings. Uncharacteristically for thermophilic
proteins, StChi40 has fewer salt bridges than its mesophilic and psychrophilic
homologues.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21082892 
PMCID: PMC7215727
PMID: 32326166 

