
1. Rev Lat Am Enfermagem. 2020;28:e3337. doi: 10.1590/1518-8345.3092.3337. Epub 2020
Aug 31.

Bacteremia in the red blood cells obtained from the cell saver in patients
submitted to heart surgery.

[Article in English, Portuguese, Spanish]

Luque-Oliveros M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universidad de Sevilla, Sevilla, Espanha.

OBJECTIVE: to determine the microbiological characteristics of the red blood
cells obtained with the cell saver in heart surgery patients on an extra-body
circuit.
METHOD: a cross-sectional and descriptive study conducted with 358 patients
scheduled for heart surgery where the saver was used. Sociodemographic variables 
were collected, as well as from the saver and of the microbial identification in 
the re-infusion bag proceeding from the cell saver. Informed consent performed.
RESULTS: of the 170 GRAM+ bacteria isolations, the most frequent species were
Staphylococcus epidermidis in 69% (n=138) of the cases and Streptococcus
sanguinis with a report of 10% (n=20). Significant differences were found in the 
Staphylococcus epidermidis strain in patients with a Body Mass Index ≥25
(p=0.002) submitted to valve surgery (p=0.001). Vancomycin was the antimicrobial 
which resisted the Staphylococcus epidermidis strain with a minimum inhibitory
concentration of >16 µg/ml.
CONCLUSION: the microbiological characteristics of the red blood cells obtained
after processing autologic blood recovered with the cell saver during heart
surgery are of GRAM+ bacterial origin, the most isolated species being
Staphylococcus epidermidis. Consequently, in order to reduce the presence of
these GRAM+ cocci, an antibiotic should be added to the cell saver reservoir,
according to a previously established protocol.

DOI: 10.1590/1518-8345.3092.3337 
PMCID: PMC7458575
PMID: 32876294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

