
1. Genes (Basel). 2020 Aug 26;11(9). pii: E999. doi: 10.3390/genes11090999.

Abundance, Diversity and Role of ICEs and IMEs in the Adaptation of Streptococcus
salivarius to the Environment.

Lao J(1)(2), Guédon G(1), Lacroix T(2), Charron-Bourgoin F(1), Libante V(1), Loux
V(2), Chiapello H(2), Payot S(1), Leblond-Bourget N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Lorraine, INRAE, DynAMic, F-54000 Nancy, France.
(2)Université Paris-Saclay, INRAE, MaIAGE, 78350 Jouy-en-Josas, France.

Streptococcus salivarius is a significant contributor to the human oral,
pharyngeal and gut microbiomes that contribute to the maintenance of health. The 
high genomic diversity observed in this species is mainly caused by horizontal
gene transfer. This work aimed to evaluate the contribution of integrative and
conjugative elements (ICEs) and integrative and mobilizable elements (IMEs) in S.
salivarius genome diversity. For this purpose, we performed an in-depth analysis 
of 75 genomes of S. salivarius and searched for signature genes of conjugative
and mobilizable elements. This analysis led to the retrieval of 69 ICEs, 165 IMEs
and many decayed elements showing their high prevalence in S. salivarius genomes.
The identification of almost all ICE and IME boundaries allowed the
identification of the genes in which these elements are inserted. Furthermore,
the exhaustive analysis of the adaptation genes carried by these elements showed 
that they encode numerous functions such as resistance to stress, to antibiotics 
or to toxic compounds, and numerous enzymes involved in diverse cellular
metabolic pathways. These data support the idea that not only ICEs but also IMEs 
and decayed elements play an important role in S. salivarius adaptation to the
environment.

DOI: 10.3390/genes11090999 
PMID: 32858915 

