
1. Mater Sci Eng C Mater Biol Appl. 2020 Dec;117:111289. doi:
10.1016/j.msec.2020.111289. Epub 2020 Jul 24.

Synthesis of multifunctional chlorhexidine-doped thin films for titanium-based
implant materials.

Matos AO(1), de Almeida AB(2), Beline T(2), Tonon CC(3), Casarin RCV(2), Windsor 
LJ(4), Duarte S(3), Nociti FH Jr(2), Rangel EC(5), Gregory RL(4), Barão VAR(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Prosthodontics and Periodontology, Piracicaba Dental School,
University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Piracicaba, São Paulo, Brazil; Department of
Biomedical Sciences and Comprehensive Care, Indiana University School of
Dentistry, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(2)Department of Prosthodontics and Periodontology, Piracicaba Dental School,
University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Piracicaba, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Cariology, Operative Dentistry and Dental Public Health, Indiana
University, Purdue University Indianapolis, School of Dentistry, Indianapolis,
IN, USA.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Comprehensive Care, Indiana University
School of Dentistry, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(5)Laboratory of Technological Plasmas (LaPTec), São Paulo State University
(UNESP), Science and Technology Institute of Sorocaba (ICTS), Sorocaba, São
Paulo, Brazil.
(6)Department of Prosthodontics and Periodontology, Piracicaba Dental School,
University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Piracicaba, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic
address: vbarao@unicamp.br.

Our goal was to create bio-functional chlorhexidine (CHX)-doped thin films on
commercially pure titanium (cpTi) discs using the glow discharge plasma approach.
Different plasma deposition times (50, 35 and 20 min) were used to create
bio-functional surfaces based on silicon films with CHX that were compared to the
control groups [no CHX and bulk cpTi surface (machined)]. Physico-chemical and
biological characterizations included: 1. Morphology, roughness, elemental
chemical composition, film thickness, contact angle and surface free energy; 2.
CHX-release rate; 3. Antibacterial effect on Streptococcus sanguinis biofilms at 
24, 48 and 72 h; 4. Cytotoxicity and metabolic activity using fibroblasts cell
culture (NIH-F3T3 cells) at 1, 2, 3 and 4 days; 5. Protein expression by NIH-F3T3
cells at 1, 2, 3 and 4 days; and 6. Co-culture assay of fibroblasts cells and S. 
sanguinis to assess live and dead cells on the confocal laser scanning
microscopy, mitochondrial activity (XTT), membrane leakage (LDH release), and
metabolic activity (WST-1 assay) at 1, 2 and 3 days of co-incubation. Data
analysis showed that silicon films, with or without CHX coated cpTi discs,
increased surface wettability and free energy (p < 0.05) without affecting
surface roughness. CHX release was maintained over a 22-day period and resulted
in a significant inhibition of biofilm growth (p < 0.05) at 48 and 72 h of
biofilm formation for 50 min and 20 min of plasma deposition time groups,
respectively. In general, CHX treatment did not significantly affect NIH-F3T3
cell viability (p > 0.05), whereas cell metabolism (MTT assay) was affected by
CHX, with the 35 min of plasma deposition time group displaying the lowest values
as compared to bulk cpTi (p < 0.05). Moreover, data analysis showed that films,
with or without CHX, significantly affected the expression profile of
inflammatory cytokines, including IL-4, IL-6, IL-17, IFN-y and TNF-α by NIH-F3T3 
cells (p < 0.05). Co-culture demonstrated that CHX-doped film did not affect the 
metabolic activity, cytotoxicity and viability of fibroblasts cells (p > 0.05).
Altogether, the findings of the current study support the conclusion that silicon
films added with CHX can be successfully created on titanium discs and have the
potential to affect bacterial growth and inflammatory markers without affecting
cell viability/proliferation rates.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msec.2020.111289 
PMID: 32919650 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

