
1. ACS Biomater Sci Eng. 2020 Sep 14;6(9):4929-4939. doi:
10.1021/acsbiomaterials.0c00845. Epub 2020 Aug 10.

Keratinocyte-Specific Peptide-Based Surfaces for Hemidesmosome Upregulation and
Prevention of Bacterial Colonization.

Fischer NG(1), Moussa DG(1), Skoe EP(1), De Jong DA(1), Aparicio C(2).

Author information: 
(1)MDRCBB-Minnesota Dental Research Center for Biomaterials and Biomechanics,
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, United States.
(2)MDRCBB-Minnesota Dental Research Center for Biomaterials and Biomechanics,
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, United State.

Percutaneous devices like orthopedic prosthetic implants for amputees, catheters,
and dental implants suffer from high infection rates. A critical aspect mediating
peri-implant infection of dental implants is the lack of a structural barrier
between the soft tissue and the implant surface which could impede bacteria
access and colonization of exposed implant surfaces. Parafunctional soft tissue
regeneration around dental implants is marked by a lack of hemidesmosome
formation and thereby weakened mechanical attachment. In response to this
healthcare burden, a simultaneously hemidesmosome-inducing, antimicrobial,
multifunctional implant surface was engineered. A designer antimicrobial peptide,
GL13K, and a laminin-derived peptide, LamLG3, were coimmobilized with two
different surface fractional areas. The coimmobilized peptide surfaces showed
antibiofilm activity against Streptococcus gordonii while enhancing
proliferation, hemidesmosome formation, and mechanical attachment of orally
derived keratinocytes. Notably, the coatings demonstrated specific activation of 
keratinocytes: the coatings showed no effects on gingival fibroblasts which are
known to impede the quality of soft tissue attachment to dental implants. These
coatings demonstrated stability and retained activity against mechanical and
thermochemical challenges, suggesting their intraoral durability. Overall, these 
multifunctional surfaces may be able to reduce peri-implantitis rates and enhance
the success rates of all percutaneous devices via strong antimicrobial activity
and enhanced soft tissue attachment to implants.

DOI: 10.1021/acsbiomaterials.0c00845 
PMCID: PMC7494210 [Available on 2021-09-14]
PMID: 32953986 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interest.

