
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Aug 3. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-02005-8. [Epub ahead of
print]

Cell-free supernatant of Streptococcus salivarius M18 impairs the pathogenic
properties of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Klebsiella pneumonia.

Tunçer S(1)(2), Karaçam S(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Vocational School of Health Services, Department of Medical Services and
Techniques, Bilecik Şeyh Edebali University, 11230, Bilecik, Turkey.
sinem.tuncer@bilecik.edu.tr.
(2)Biotechnology Application and Research Center, Bilecik Şeyh Edebali
University, 11230, Bilecik, Turkey. sinem.tuncer@bilecik.edu.tr.
(3)Biotechnology Application and Research Center, Bilecik Şeyh Edebali
University, 11230, Bilecik, Turkey.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Bilecik Şeyh Edebali University, 11230, Bilecik, 
Turkey.

M18 strain of Streptococcus salivarius is a bacterial replacement probiotic that 
has been suggested for use in the oral cavity. Here, we have shown that S.
salivarius M18 cell-free supernatant reduced the growth of the two most common
human pathogens Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Klebsiella pneumonia and sensitized
the pathogenic bacteria to antibiotic. Besides, the supernatant inhibited biofilm
formation of P. aeruginosa drastically. For pinpointing the biomolecular changes 
that occurred in P. aeruginosa incubated with the probiotic supernatant,
attenuated total reflectance-Fourier transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) spectroscopy
was used. Unsupervised learning algorithms, principal component analysis (PCA)
and hierarchical cluster analysis (HCA), and intensity analyses of individual
spectral bands exhibited comprehensive alterations in the polysaccharide and
lipid contents and compositions of P. aeruginosa cultivated with S. salivarius
M18 cell-free supernatant. These results indicate that S. salivarius M18 has the 
potential for the prevention or alleviation of different pathogen-induced
infections along with the infections of oral pathogens.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-02005-8 
PMID: 32747998 

