
1. Genes (Basel). 2020 Sep 19;11(9). pii: E1096. doi: 10.3390/genes11091096.

Export of Rgg Quorum Sensing Peptides is Mediated by the PptAB ABC Transporter in
Streptococcus Thermophilus Strain LMD-9.

Lingeswaran A(1), Metton C(1), Henry C(1), Monnet V(1), Juillard V(1), Gardan
R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universit√© Paris-Saclay, INRAE, AgroParisTech, Micalis Institute, 78350,
Jouy-en-Josas, France.

In streptococci, intracellular quorum sensing pathways are based on
quorum-sensing systems that are responsible for peptide secretion, maturation,
and reimport. These peptides then interact with Rgg or ComR transcriptional
regulators in the Rap, Rgg, NprR, PlcR, and PrgX (RRNPP) family, whose members
are found in Gram-positive bacteria. Short hydrophobic peptides (SHP) interact
with Rgg whereas ComS peptides interact with ComR regulators. To date, in
Streptococcus thermophilus, peptide secretion, maturation, and extracellular fate
have received little attention, even though this species has several (at least
five) genes encoding Rgg regulators and one encoding a ComR regulator. We studied
pheromone export in this species, focusing our attention on PptAB, which is an
exporter of signaling peptides previously identified in Enterococcus faecalis,
pathogenic streptococci and Staphylococcus aureus. In the S. thermophilus strain 
LMD-9, we showed that PptAB controlled three regulation systems, two SHP/Rgg
systems (SHP/Rgg1358 and SHP/Rgg1299), and the ComS/ComR system, while using
transcriptional fusions and that PptAB helped to produce and export at least
three different mature SHPs (SHP1358, SHP1299, and SHP279) peptides while using
liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Using a deep
sequencing approach (RNAseq), we showed that the exporter PptAB, the membrane
protease Eep, and the oligopeptide importer Ami controlled the transcription of
the genes that were located downstream from the five non-truncated rgg genes as
well as few distal genes. This led us to propose that the five non-truncated
shp/rgg loci were functional. Only three shp genes were expressed in our
experimental condition. Thus, this transcriptome analysis also highlighted the
complex interconnected network that exists between SHP/Rgg systems, where a few
homologous signaling peptides likely interact with different regulators.

DOI: 10.3390/genes11091096 
PMID: 32961685 

