
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 Jun 2;86(12). pii: e00777-20. doi:
10.1128/AEM.00777-20. Print 2020 Jun 2.

A Mediterranean Diet Intervention Reduces the Levels of Salivary
Periodontopathogenic Bacteria in Overweight and Obese Subjects.

Laiola M(1), De Filippis F(1)(2), Vitaglione P(1)(2), Ercolini D(3)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, University of Naples Federico II,
Portici, Italy.
(2)Task Force on Microbiome Studies, University of Naples Federico II, Naples,
Italy.
(3)Department of Agricultural Sciences, University of Naples Federico II,
Portici, Italy ercolini@unina.it.

The human oral cavity is a complex ecosystem, and the alterations in salivary
microbial communities are associated with both oral and nonoral diseases. The
Mediterranean diet (MD) is a healthy dietary pattern useful for both prevention
and treatment of several diseases. To further explore the effects of the MD on
human health, in this study, we investigated the changes in the salivary
microbial communities in overweight/obese subjects after an individually tailored
MD-based nutritional intervention. Healthy overweight and obese subjects were
randomized between two intervention groups. The MD group (Med-D group) increased 
their MD adherence during 8 weeks of intervention while the control diet
(control-D) group did not change their dietary habits. The salivary microbiota
was assessed at baseline and after 4 and 8 weeks of intervention. Despite no
observed changes in the overall salivary microbiota composition, we found a
significant decrease in the relative abundances of species-level operational
taxonomic units annotated as Porphyromonas gingivalis, Prevotella intermedia, and
Treponema denticola in the Med-D group compared to that in the control-D group
after 8 weeks of intervention, which are known to be associated with periodontal 
disease. Such variations were significantly linked to dietary variables such as
MD adherence rates and intakes of animal versus vegetable proteins. In addition, 
increased levels of Streptococcus cristatus were observed in the Med-D group,
which has been reported as an antagonistic taxon inhibiting P. gingivalis gene
expression. Our findings suggest that an MD-based nutritional intervention may be
implicated in reducing periodontal bacteria, and an MD may be a dietary strategy 
supportive of oral homeostasis.IMPORTANCE Changes in dietary behavior with
increased adherence to a Mediterranean diet can determine a reduction of
periodontopathogenic bacterial abundances in the saliva of overweight subjects
with cardiometabolic risk due to an unhealthy lifestyle, without any change in
individual energy intake, nutrient intake, and physical activity.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00777-20 
PMCID: PMC7267188 [Available on 2020-12-02]
PMID: 32276980 

