
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Apr 14;10(1):6297. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-63153-x.

Exploration of singular and synergistic effect of xylitol and erythritol on
causative agents of dental caries.

Kõljalg S(1), Smidt I(2), Chakrabarti A(3), Bosscher D(3), Mändar R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Institute of Biomedicine and Translational
Medicine, University of Tartu, Tartu, Estonia. siiri.koljalg@ut.ee.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Institute of Biomedicine and Translational
Medicine, University of Tartu, Tartu, Estonia.
(3)Cargill R&D Centre Europe, Vilvoorde, Belgium.

Non-cariogenic sweet substances, like sugar alcohols, are used to decrease the
risk of caries by reducing the growth of dental plaque. The aim of our study was 
to reveal the impact of xylitol and erythritol on the growth and biofilm
formation of cariogenic bacteria including as a novelty, set of clinical mutans
streptococci and Scardovia wiggsiae and to assess the possible synergistic
influence of these polyols. We found both xylitol and erythritol to express high 
growth inhibition effect on cariogenic bacteria. In synergistic effect
experiments, 10% polyol combination with excess of erythritol was found to be
more effective against growth of Streptococcus mutans and the combination with
excess of xylitol more effective against growth of Streptococcus sobrinus and S. 
wiggsiae. In biofilm inhibition experiments, solutions of 10% polyols in
different combinations and 15% single polyols were equally effective against
mutans streptococci. At the same time, higher biofilm formation of S. wiggsiae
compared to experiments without polyols was detected in different polyol
concentrations for up to 34%. In conclusion, both erythritol and xylitol as well 
as their combinations inhibit the growth of different cariogenic bacteria.
Biofilm formation of mutans streptococci is also strongly inhibited. When
applying polyols in caries prophylaxis, it is relevant to consider that the
profile of pathogens in a particular patient may influence the effect of polyols 
used.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-63153-x 
PMCID: PMC7156733
PMID: 32286378 

