
1. Braz J Microbiol. 2020 Aug 31. doi: 10.1007/s42770-020-00369-z. [Epub ahead of
print]

Soymilk fermentation: effect of cooling protocol on cell viability during storage
and in vitro gastrointestinal stress.

Piazentin ACM(1), da Silva TMS(1), Florence-Franco AC(2), Bedani R(1), Converti
A(3), de Souza Oliveira RP(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemical and Pharmaceutical Technology, University of São
Paulo, Prof. Lineu Prestes, 580 - Bloco 16, Sao Paulo, 05508-000, Brazil.
(2)French Institute of Health and Medical Research, Inserm, Toulouse Purpan
Pathophysiology Center, CPTP, Toulouse, France.
(3)Department of Civil, Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Pole of Chemical 
Engineering, University of Genoa, Via Opera Pia 15, 16145, Genoa, Italy.
(4)Department of Biochemical and Pharmaceutical Technology, University of São
Paulo, Prof. Lineu Prestes, 580 - Bloco 16, Sao Paulo, 05508-000, Brazil.
rpsolive@usp.br.

This work covers soymilk fermentation by starter and probiotic cultures and
explores the influence of cooling protocol on cell viability, organic acid
production, sugar consumption, fatty acid profile, and cell survival to in vitro 
gastrointestinal stress. After fermentation at 37 °C by mono- or co-cultures of
Streptococcus thermophilus (St), Lactobacillus bulgaricus (Lb), and Lactobacillus
paracasei (Lp), fermented soymilk was cooled directly at 4 °C for 28 days or
cooled in two phases (TPC), i.e., by preceding that step by another at 25 °C for 
8 h. Soybean milk fermentation by Lb alone lasted longer (15 h) than by StLb or
StLbLp (9 h). In ternary culture, TPC increased Lp viability, linoleic, and
lactic acid concentrations by 3.8, 22.6, and 96.2%, respectively, whereas the
cooling protocol did not influence Lp and St counts after in vitro
gastrointestinal stress. Graphical abstract.

DOI: 10.1007/s42770-020-00369-z 
PMID: 32865712 

