
1. Eur J Med Chem. 2020 Aug 14;207:112735. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2020.112735. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Novel pleuromutilin derivatives with substituted 6-methylpyrimidine: Design,
synthesis and antibacterial evaluation.

Fan Y(1), Liu Y(2), Wang H(2), Shi T(3), Cheng F(2), Hao B(2), Yi Y(4), Shang
R(5).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of New Animal Drug Project, Gansu Province, China; Key
Laboratory of Veterinary Pharmaceutical Development, Ministry of Agriculture and 
Rural Affairs, China; Lanzhou Institute of Husbandry and Pharmaceutical Sciences 
of CAAS, No. 335, Qilihe District, Lanzhou, 730050, China. Electronic address:
fanyuan666@163.com.
(2)Key Laboratory of New Animal Drug Project, Gansu Province, China; Key
Laboratory of Veterinary Pharmaceutical Development, Ministry of Agriculture and 
Rural Affairs, China; Lanzhou Institute of Husbandry and Pharmaceutical Sciences 
of CAAS, No. 335, Qilihe District, Lanzhou, 730050, China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, 730000, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of New Animal Drug Project, Gansu Province, China; Key
Laboratory of Veterinary Pharmaceutical Development, Ministry of Agriculture and 
Rural Affairs, China; Lanzhou Institute of Husbandry and Pharmaceutical Sciences 
of CAAS, No. 335, Qilihe District, Lanzhou, 730050, China. Electronic address:
yiyp@foxmail.com.
(5)Key Laboratory of New Animal Drug Project, Gansu Province, China; Key
Laboratory of Veterinary Pharmaceutical Development, Ministry of Agriculture and 
Rural Affairs, China; Lanzhou Institute of Husbandry and Pharmaceutical Sciences 
of CAAS, No. 335, Qilihe District, Lanzhou, 730050, China. Electronic address:
shangrf1974@163.com.

A series of novel pleuromutilin derivatives with substituted 6-methylpyrimidine
moieties was designed, synthesized, and evaluated for their antibacterial
activities. Most of the tested compounds exhibited potent antibacterial
activities against Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923 (S. aureus-25923),
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis ATCC 51625 (MRSE-51625),
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus BNCC 337371 (MRSA-337371),
Streptococcus dysgalactiae (S. dysgalactiae) and Streptococcus agalactiae
(S. agalactiae). Compounds 5c and 5g were the most active and displayed
bacteriostatic activities against MRSA. In vivo mouse systemic infection
experiment showed that 5c significantly improved the survival rate of mice
(ED50 = 18.02 mg/kg), reduced the bacterial load and alleviated the pathological 
changes in the lungs of the affected mice.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2020.112735 
PMID: 32827940 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

