
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Aug 31;11:1993. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01993. eCollection 
2020.

Development and Application of a Prophage Integrase Typing Scheme for Group B
Streptococcus.

Crestani C(1), Forde TL(1), Zadoks RN(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biodiversity, Animal Health and Comparative Medicine, University 
of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom.
(2)Sydney School of Veterinary Science, University of Sydney, Camden, NSW,
Australia.

Group B Streptococcus (GBS) is a gram-positive pathogen mainly affecting humans, 
cattle, and fishes. Mobile genetic elements play an important role in the
evolution of GBS, its adaptation to host species and niches, and its
pathogenicity. In particular, lysogenic prophages have been associated with a
high virulence of certain strains and with their ability to cause invasive
infections in humans. It is therefore important to be able to accurately detect
and classify prophages in GBS genomes. Several bioinformatic tools for the
identification of prophages in bacterial genomes are available on-line. However, 
genome searches for most of these programs are affected by the composition of
their reference database. Lack of databases specific to GBS results in failure to
recognize all prophages in the species. Additionally, performance of these
programs is affected by genome fragmentation in the case of draft genomes,
leading to underestimation of the number of phages. They also prove impractical
when dealing with large genome datasets and they do not offer a quick way of
classifying bacteriophages. We developed a GBS-specific method to screen genome
assemblies for the presence of prophages and to classify them based on a
reproducible typing scheme. This was achieved through an extensive search of a
vast number of high-quality GBS sequences (n = 572) originating from different
host species and countries in order to build a database of phage integrase types,
on which the scheme is based. The proposed typing scheme comprises 12 integration
sites and sixteen prophage integrase types, including multiple subtypes per
integration site and integrase genes that were not site-specific. Two putative
phage-inducible chromosomal islands (PICI) and their insertion sites were also
identified during the course of these analyses. Phages were common and diverse in
all major clonal complexes associated with human disease and detected in isolates
from every animal species and continent included in the study. This database will
facilitate further work on the prevalence and role of prophages in GBS evolution,
and identifies the roles of PICIs in GBS and of prophage in hypervirulent ST283
as areas for further research.

Copyright Â© 2020 Crestani, Forde and Zadoks.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01993 
PMCID: PMC7487436
PMID: 32983017 

