
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Jul;70(7):4098-4104. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004180.

Streptococcus downii sp. nov., isolated from the oral cavity of a teenager with
Down syndrome.

Martínez-Lamas L(1), Limeres-Posse J(2), Diz-Dios P(2), Álvarez-Fernández M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Microbiology, Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, Complejo Hospitalario
Universitario de Vigo, Microbiology and Infectology Group, Galicia Sur Health
Research Institute (IISGS), Vigo, Galicia, Spain.
(2)Medical-Surgical Dentistry Research Group (OMEQUI), Health Research Institute 
of Santiago de Compostela (IDIS), University of Santiago de Compostela (USC),
Santiago de Compostela, Spain.

A new α-haemolytic streptococcal strain has been isolated from the dental plaque 
of a teenager with Down syndrome. Genetic and taxonomic analyses place this
Streptococcus within the oralis group. It is a Gram-stain-positive, non-motile,
non-spore-forming spherical alpha-haemolytic coccus arranged in chains, and it
ferments a large number of monosaccharides and disaccharides, as well as
polymeric carbohydrates. It differs biochemically from closely related species of
Streptococcus due to its production of α-galactosidase, β-galactosidase and
N-acetyl-β-d-glucosaminidase and by the absence of arginine dihydrolase deiminase
and IgA1-protease. It grows in a temperature range of 25 to 40 °C (optimal growth
temperature at 37 °C) and in a pH range of 4.5 to 8 (optimal pH at 7.0). A
phylogenetic analysis based on its 16S and 23S rRNA gene sequences placed it
close to Streptococcus dentisani CECT 7747T. The ANIb and ANIm values were 93.19 
and 93.61 %, respectively, both below the accepted threshold to designate it as a
new species of bacteria. A phylogenetic tree based on its core genome placed it
close to Streptococcus oralis subsp. dentisani strain CECT 7747T with a distance 
in the expanded core phylogeny of 0.1298. The in silico DNA-DNA hybridization
value was 52.2 % with respect to the closest species, S. oralis subsp. dentisani 
CECT 7747T. Based on these data, a new species of bacteria within the genus
Streptococcus, family Streptococcaceae and order Lactobacillales is described,
for which the name of Streptococcus downii sp. nov. is proposed (type strain CECT
9732T=CCUG 73139T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004180 
PMID: 32539911  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

