
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Sep 10;9(9). pii: E592. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9090592.

Phytochemical Composition and In Vitro Antimicrobial Activity of Essential Oils
from the Lamiaceae Family against Streptococcus agalactiae and Candida albicans
Biofilms.

Iseppi R(1), Tardugno R(1), Brighenti V(1), Benvenuti S(1), Sabia C(1), Pellati
F(1), Messi P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Via G.
Campi 103/287, 41125 Modena, Italy.

The antimicrobial activity of different essential oils (EOs) from the Lamiaceae
family was evaluated on Streptococcus agalactiae, Candida albicans, and
lactobacilli. S. agalactiae is the main cause of severe neonatal infections, such
as sepsis, meningitis, and pneumonia. C. albicans is a primary causative agent of
vulvovaginal candidiasis, a multifactorial infectious disease of the lower female
reproductive tract. Lactobacilli represent the dominant bacterial species of the 
vaginal flora and constitute the natural defense against pathogens. On the basis 
of the preliminary results, the attention was focused on the EOs from Lavandula x
intermedia Emeric ex Loisel. and Mentha arvensis L. By using gas ghromatography
(GS) retention data and mass spectra, it was possible to identify more than 90%
of the total composition of the EO samples. The minimal inhibitory concentration 
(MIC) and anti-biofilm activity of the two EOs were determined against all
isolated strains, using the EOs by themselves or in combination with each other
and with drugs (erythromycin and fluconazole). The results showed a good
antimicrobial and anti-biofilm activity of both EOs and a synergistic effect,
leading to the best results against all the strains, resulted using the
combinations EOs/EOs and antimicrobials/EOs.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9090592 
PMID: 32927692 

