
1. J Vis Exp. 2020 Sep 11;(163). doi: 10.3791/61594.

Constructing Mutants in Serotype 1 Streptococcus pneumoniae strain 519/43.

Terra VS(1), Plumptre CD(2), Wall EC(3), Brown JS(2), Wren BW(4).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Infections and Tropical Diseases, Department of Infection Biology, 
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine; vanessa.terra@lshtm.ac.uk.
(2)Division of Medicine, University College London.
(3)Division of Infection and Immunity, University College London UCL.
(4)Faculty of Infections and Tropical Diseases, Department of Infection Biology, 
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.

Streptococcus pneumoniae serotype 1 remains a huge problem in low-and-middle
income countries, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. Despite its importance,
studies in this serotype have been hindered by the lack of genetic tools to
modify it. In this study, we describe a method to genetically modify a serotype 1
clinical isolate (strain 519/43). Interestingly, this was achieved by exploiting 
the Pneumococcus' ability to naturally acquire DNA. However, unlike most
pneumococci, the use of linear DNA was not successful; to mutate this important
strain, a suicide plasmid had to be used. This methodology has provided the means
for a deeper understanding of this elusive serotype, both in terms of its biology
and pathogenicity. To validate the method, the major known pneumococcal toxin,
pneumolysin, was mutated because it has a well-known and easy to follow
phenotype. We showed that the mutant, as expected, lost its ability to lyse red
blood cells. By being able to mutate an important gene in the serotype of
interest, we were able to observe different phenotypes for loss of function
mutants upon intraperitoneal and intranasal infections from the ones observed for
other serotypes. In summary, this study proves that strain 519/43 (serotype 1)
can be genetically modified.

DOI: 10.3791/61594 
PMID: 32986036 

