
1. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2020 Sep 27. doi: 10.1007/s12602-020-09712-0.
[Epub ahead of print]

Probiotic Effects of Lactobacillus paracasei 28.4 to Inhibit Streptococcus mutans
in a Gellan-Based Formulation.

de Alvarenga JA(1), de Barros PP(2), de Camargo Ribeiro F(1), Rossoni RD(1),
Garcia MT(1), Dos Santos Velloso M(1), Shukla S(3), Fuchs BB(4), Shukla A(3),
Mylonakis E(4), Junqueira JC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosciences and Oral Diagnosis, Institute of Science and
Technology, São Paulo State University/UNESP, Av. Francisco José Longo 777, São
Dimas, São José dos Campos, SP, 12245-000, Brazil.
(2)Department of Biosciences and Oral Diagnosis, Institute of Science and
Technology, São Paulo State University/UNESP, Av. Francisco José Longo 777, São
Dimas, São José dos Campos, SP, 12245-000, Brazil. barrosdnapp@yahoo.com.br.
(3)School of Engineering, Brown University, Providence, RI, USA.
(4)Rhode Island Hospital, Alpert Medical School & Brown University, Providence,
RI, USA.

Streptococcus mutans is considered to be a major bacterium involved in dental
caries, and the control of virulence mechanisms is fundamental to prevent
disease. Probiotics present a promising preventive method; however, the use of
probiotics requires its incorporation into delivery materials to facilitate oral 
colonization. Thus, we performed a comprehensive study examining preventive
effects of Lactobacillus paracasei 28.4-enriched gellan hydrogel materials to
inhibit S. mutans in planktonic and biofilm states, addressing its influence in
the production of extracellular polysaccharides (EPS) and altered gene expression
of several cariogenic virulence factors. L. paracasei 28.4, a strain isolated
from the oral cavity of a caries-free individual, was incorporated in three
gellan hydrogels (0.5%, 0.75%, and 1% w/v). The pretreatment with
probiotic-gellan formulations provided a release of L. paracasei cells over 24 h 
that was sufficient to inhibit the planktonic growth of S. mutans, independent of
the gellan concentrations and pH variations. This pretreatment also had
inhibitory activity against S. mutans biofilms, exhibiting a reduction of 0.57 to
1.54 log10 in CFU/mL (p < 0.0001) and a decrease of 68.8 to 71.3% in total
biomass (p < 0.0001) compared with the control group. These inhibitory effects
were associated with the decreased production of EPS by 80% (p < 0.0001) and the 
downregulation of luxS, brpA, gbpB, and gtfB genes. The gellan formulation
containing L. paracasei 28.4 exhibited probiotic effects for preventing S. mutans
growth, biofilm formation, and production of cariogenic factors to suggest
possible use in tooth decay prevention.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-020-09712-0 
PMID: 32980974 

