
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Oct;202(8):2071-2081. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-01922-y. Epub 
2020 Jun 1.

Characterization and pathogenicity of fibronectin binding protein FbpI of
Streptococcus intermedius.

Kodama Y(1), Shimoyama Y(1), Ishikawa T(1), Kimura S(1), Sasaki M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Microbiology, Department of Microbiology, Iwate Medical 
University, 1-1-1 Idaidori, Yahaba-cho, Shiwa-gun, Iwate, 028-3694, Japan.
(2)Division of Molecular Microbiology, Department of Microbiology, Iwate Medical 
University, 1-1-1 Idaidori, Yahaba-cho, Shiwa-gun, Iwate, 028-3694, Japan.
msasaki@iwate-med.ac.jp.

Streptococcus intermedius is a causative agent of brain or liver abscesses. S.
intermedius produces intermedilysin that plays a pivotal role in pathogenicity.
We identified other pathogenic factors and described a fibronectin binding
protein (FBP) homolog of S. intermedius (FbpI) that mediated bacterial adhesion
to epithelial cells and virulence for mice. The amino acid sequence of FbpI is
similar to that of atypical FBPs, which do not possess a conventional secretion
signal and an anchoring motif. A full-length recombinant FbpI (rFbpI) bound to
immobilized fibronectin in a dose-dependent manner. The fibronectin binding
activity of an N-terminal construct of rFbpI comprising the translation
initiation methionine of the open reading frame to lysine 265 (rFbpI-N) bound
immobilized fibronectin to a much lesser extent compared with rFbpI. A construct 
comprising the C-terminal domain (alanine 266 to methionine 549; rFbpI-C) bound
immobilized fibronectin equivalently to rFbpI. Adherence of the isogenic mutant
ΔfbpI to cultured epithelial cells and immobilized fibronectin was significantly 
lower than that of the wild-type strain. Abscess formation of ΔfbpI reduced in a 
mouse infection model compared with that in the wild-type. Thus, FbpI may play a 
role in bacterial adhesion to host cells and represent a critical pathogenic
factor of S. intermedius.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-01922-y 
PMID: 32488560 

