
1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2020 Apr 7;117(14):7745-7754. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1916085117. Epub 2020 Mar 20.

Molecular dissection of pheromone selectivity in the competence signaling system 
ComRS of streptococci.

Ledesma-Garcia L(1), Thuillier J(2), Guzman-Espinola A(1), Ensinck I(1), Li de la
Sierra-Gallay I(2), Lazar N(2), Aumont-Nicaise M(2), Mignolet J(1), Soumillion
P(1), Nessler S(3), Hols P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Louvain Institute of Biomolecular Science and Technology, Biochemistry and
Genetics of Microorganisms, Université catholique de Louvain, B-1348
Louvain-La-Neuve, Belgium.
(2)Institute of Integrative Biology of the Cell (I2BC), University Paris-Sarclay,
CEA, CNRS, 91198, Gif-sur-Yvette, France.
(3)Institute of Integrative Biology of the Cell (I2BC), University Paris-Sarclay,
CEA, CNRS, 91198, Gif-sur-Yvette, France sylvie.nessler@i2bc.paris-saclay.fr
pascal.hols@uclouvain.be.
(4)Louvain Institute of Biomolecular Science and Technology, Biochemistry and
Genetics of Microorganisms, Université catholique de Louvain, B-1348
Louvain-La-Neuve, Belgium; sylvie.nessler@i2bc.paris-saclay.fr
pascal.hols@uclouvain.be.

Competence allows bacteria to internalize exogenous DNA fragments for the
acquisition of new phenotypes such as antibiotic resistance or virulence traits. 
In most streptococci, competence is regulated by ComRS signaling, a system based 
on the mature ComS pheromone (XIP), which is internalized to activate the
(R)RNPP-type ComR sensor by triggering dimerization and DNA binding. Cross-talk
analyses demonstrated major differences of selectivity between ComRS systems and 
raised questions concerning the mechanism of pheromone-sensor recognition and
coevolution. Here, we decipher the molecular determinants of selectivity of the
closely related ComRS systems from Streptococcus thermophilus and Streptococcus
vestibularis Despite high similarity, we show that the divergence in ComR-XIP
interaction does not allow reciprocal activation. We perform the structural
analysis of the ComRS system from S. vestibularis. Comparison with its ortholog
from S. thermophilus reveals an activation mechanism based on a toggle switch
involving the recruitment of a key loop by the XIP C terminus. Together with a
broad mutational analysis, we identify essential residues directly involved in
peptide binding. Notably, we generate a ComR mutant that displays a fully
reversed selectivity toward the heterologous pheromone with only five point
mutations, as well as other ComR variants featuring XIP bispecificity and/or
neofunctionalization for hybrid XIP peptides. We also reveal that a single XIP
mutation relaxes the strictness of ComR activation, suggesting fast adaptability 
of molecular communication phenotypes. Overall, this study is paving the way
toward the rational design or directed evolution of artificial ComRS systems for 
a range of biotechnological and biomedical applications.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1916085117 
PMCID: PMC7149491
PMID: 32198205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.

