
1. Photobiomodul Photomed Laser Surg. 2020 Jul 30. doi: 10.1089/photob.2019.4736.
[Epub ahead of print]

Polyacrylic Acid with Methylene Blue Dye as a Sensitizing Agent for Photodynamic 
Therapy to Reduce Streptococcus mutans in Dentinal Caries.

Pereira LM(1), Estevam LR(1), da Silva MF(1), Pinheiro SL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Program in Health Sciences, Center for Life Sciences, Pontifical 
Catholic University of Campinas (PUC Campinas), Campinas, Brazil.

Objective: To evaluate 11.5% polyacrylic acid (PA) containing 0.3% methylene blue
(MB) dye as a photosensitizer for photodynamic therapy (PDT) of carious dentin.
Methods: One hundred twenty molars were selected and the dentin was exposed for
cariogenic challenge, where the molars were placed in brain heart infusion medium
containing a standard strain of Streptococcus mutans (ATCC ). Samples were
randomly divided into eight groups (n = 15): S: saline, PA, MB: MB 0.3%, PA+MB:
PA containing 0.3% MB + LLL: irradiation with low-level laser, PDT (MB): MB 0.3% 
+ laser, PDT (PA): PA + laser, and PDT (PA+MB): PA containing 0.3% MB + laser.
Carious dentin was collected before and after exposure to S. mutans. All samples 
of carious dentin were homogenized, diluted, and seeded in mitis salivarius
bacitracin medium, and the cultures were incubated at 37°C for 15 days in
anaerobic jars. The Wilcoxon test was used for analysis. Results: The percent
microbial reduction achieved with each treatment was as follows: PDT (MB),
53.62%; PDT (PA+MB), 50.47%; PDT (PA), 46.73%; PA, 38.51%; MB, 19.75%; PA+MB,
17.18%; LLL, 12.83%; S, 5.99%. The greatest reductions in S. mutans growth
occurred with PDT (MB), PDT (PA+MB), and PDT (PA) when compared to the S group
(p = 0.0002, 0.0023, and 0.0232, respectively). Conclusions: PA containing 0.3%
MB can be used as a photosensitizer for PDT to reduce S. mutans burden in carious
dentin.

DOI: 10.1089/photob.2019.4736 
PMID: 32758049 

