
1. RSC chem biol. 2020 Jun 1;1(2):60-67. doi: 10.1039/D0CB00012D. Epub 2020 May 29.

Biological Evaluation of Native Streptococcal Competence Stimulating Peptides
Reveal Potential Crosstalk Between Streptococcus mitis and Streptococcus
pneumoniae and a New Scaffold for the Development of S. pneumoniae Quorum Sensing
Modulators.

Milly TA(1), Tal-Gan Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Nevada, Reno, 1664 N. Virginia Street, 
Reno, Nevada 89557, United States.

Streptococcus pneumoniae, an opportunistic human pathogen, acquires genes from
its neighboring species of the mitis group of streptococci that confer antibiotic
resistances and allow it to produce diverse virulence factors. Most species of
the mitis group are naturally competent, and they utilize the competence
stimulating peptide (CSP) and the CSP-dependent competence regulon, a conserved
quorum sensing (QS) circuit, to regulate their competence behavior. The
dependence of the mitis group on this communication pathway makes QS a potential 
target to control their behavior. In this work, we sought to evaluate the impact 
of native pheromones of the adjacent species of S. pneumoniae to modulate the
activity of the S. pneumoniae competence regulon. Our results revealed the
potential role of S. mitis as a modulator of QS in S. pneumoniae. Most
importantly, our analysis also revealed that by using the native pheromone of S. 
mitis as a template, highly potent pan-group agonists and antagonists of the
pneumococcal competence regulon could be developed. The newly developed QS
modulators may have therapeutic utility in treating pneumococcus infections.

DOI: 10.1039/D0CB00012D 
PMCID: PMC7470514 [Available on 2021-06-01]
PMID: 32905481 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interest.

