
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Jun 15;149:104260. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104260. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Roles of membrane vesicles from Streptococcus mutans for the induction of
antibodies to glucosyltransferase in mucosal immunity.

Nakamura T(1), Iwabuchi Y(2), Hirayama S(2), Narisawa N(3), Takenaga F(3), Nakao 
R(2), Senpuku H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Bioscience and Biotechnology, College of Bioresource
Sciences, Nihon University, Fujisawa, Kanagawa, 252-0880, Japan; Department of
Bacteriology, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, 162-8640, Japan.
(2)Department of Bacteriology, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, 
162-8640, Japan.
(3)Department of Food Bioscience and Biotechnology, College of Bioresource
Sciences, Nihon University, Fujisawa, Kanagawa, 252-0880, Japan.
(4)Department of Bacteriology, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, 
162-8640, Japan. Electronic address: hsenpuku@nih.go.jp.

Glucosyltransferase (Gtf) B and GtfC from Streptococcus mutans are key enzymes
for the development of biofilm-associated diseases such as dental caries. Gtfs
are involved in membrane vesicles (MVs) and function in the formation of biofilms
by initial colonizers such as Streptococcus mitis and Streptococcus oralis on the
tooth surface. Therefore, MVs may be important virulence factors and targets for 
the prevention of biofilm-associated disease. To clarify how GtfB encoded by gtfB
and GtfC encoded by gtfC associate with MVs and whether MVs are effective as a
mucosal immunogen to induce the production of antibodies against Gtfs, MVs from
S. mutans UA159 wild-type (WT), gtfB-, gtfC- and gtfB-C- were extracted from
culture supernatants by ultracentrifugation and observed by scanning electron
microscopy. Compared with GtfB, GtfC was mainly contained in MVs and regulated
the size and aggregation of MVs, and the biofilm formation of S. mutans. The
intranasal immunization of BALB/c mice with MVs plus a TLR3 agonist, poly(I-C),
was performed 2 or 3 times for 5 weeks, with an interval of 2 or 3 weeks. MVs
from all strains caused anti-MV IgA and IgG antibody production. In quality
analysis of these antibodies, the IgA and IgG antibodies produced by immunization
with MVs from WT and gtfB- strains reacted with Gtfs in the saliva, nasal wash
and serum but those produced by immunization with MVs from gtfC- and gtfB-C-
strains did not. S. mutans MVs mainly formed by GtfC are an intriguing immunogen 
for the production of anti-Gtf antibodies in mucosal immunogenicity.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104260 
PMID: 32554054 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare no conflicts of interest associated with this manuscript.

