
1. J Am Chem Soc. 2020 Sep 23;142(38):16265-16275. doi: 10.1021/jacs.0c05546. Epub
2020 Sep 14.

Discovery and Biosynthesis of Streptosactin, a Sactipeptide with an Alternative
Topology Encoded by Commensal Bacteria in the Human Microbiome.

Bushin LB(1), Covington BC(1), Rued BE(2), Federle MJ(2), Seyedsayamdost
MR(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544,
United States.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Illinois at Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois 60607, United States.
(3)Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey
08544, United States.

Mammalian microbiomes encode thousands of biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs) and
represent a new frontier in natural product research. We recently found an
abundance of quorum sensing-regulated BGCs in mammalian microbiome streptococci
that code for ribosomally synthesized and post-translationally modified peptides 
(RiPPs) and contain one or more radical S-adenosylmethionine (RaS) enzymes, a
versatile superfamily known to catalyze some of the most unusual reactions in
biology. In the current work, we target a widespread group of streptococcal RiPP 
BGCs and elucidate both the reaction carried out by its encoded RaS enzyme and
identify its peptide natural product, which we name streptosactin. Streptosactin 
is the first sactipeptide identified from Streptococcus spp.; it contains two
sequential four amino acid sactionine macrocycles, an unusual topology for this
compound family. Bioactivity assays reveal potent but narrow-spectrum activity
against the producing strain and its closest relatives that carry the same BGC,
suggesting streptosactin may be a long-suspected fratricidal agent of
Streptococcus thermophilus. Our results highlight mammalian streptococci as a
rich source of unusual enzymatic chemistries and bioactive natural products.

DOI: 10.1021/jacs.0c05546 
PMID: 32845143 

