
1. J Med Case Rep. 2020 Jul 21;14(1):111. doi: 10.1186/s13256-020-02436-3.

Multiple brain abscesses with good prognosis in an infant with cyanotic
congenital heart disease: a case report.

Kudo-Kubo A(1), Shimakawa S(2), Odanaka Y(1), Ikeda N(3), Kitahara H(1),
Toshikawa H(1), Ashida A(1), Fukui M(1), Ozaki N(1), Kishi K(1), Wanibuchi M(3), 
Ashida A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Osaka Medical College, 2-7 Daigaku-machi, Takatsuki,
Takatsuki, Osaka, 569-8686, Japan.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Osaka Medical College, 2-7 Daigaku-machi, Takatsuki,
Takatsuki, Osaka, 569-8686, Japan. kns120@osaka-med.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Osaka Medical College, Takatsuki, Osaka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Brain abscesses are relatively rare, but they are a potentially
life-threatening condition. Predictive factors for poor outcome are a young age
and the presence of multiple abscesses. We report a case of a 15-month-old girl
with cyanotic congenital heart disease who developed multiple brain abscesses
caused by Streptococcus intermedius. The patient was treated with a combination
of surgical aspiration and antimicrobial therapy without apparent neurological
sequelae. To the best of our knowledge, this is the youngest such patient to have
been reported in the literature. We explore the possible causes of her good
outcome.
CASE PRESENTATION: At the age of 15 months, the Japanese patient initially was
presented to our hospital with transient eye deviation to the left and vomiting. 
In a blood examination, her white blood cell count (12,720 per mm3 with a left
shift) and C-reactive protein level (1.23 mg/ml) were slightly elevated. Magnetic
resonance imaging of the brain showed three mass lesions. These were 1.5-cm,
1.9-cm, and 1.2-cm rim-enhancing lesions with extensive surrounding edema. Brain 
abscesses were diagnosed, and vancomycin (50 mg every 12 hours) and meropenem
(40 mg every 8 hours) were started empirically. However, because each brain
abscess was enlarged at 8 days after admission, surgical aspiration was performed
at 10 days after admission, and cultures of the aspirated pus grew S.
intermedius. Penicillin G (0.7 million units every 4 hours) and ceftriaxone
(280 mg every 12 hours), to which this isolate is susceptible, were then
administered, and the brain abscesses reduced in size. After 1 month of
ceftriaxone and 3 months of penicillin G treatment, all of the brain abscesses
disappeared. Apparent neurological sequelae were not observed at 6 months after
onset.
CONCLUSIONS: A good outcome can be obtained if multiple brain abscesses develop
in infancy or early childhood in cases without unconsciousness at admission,
meningitis, or sepsis. Appropriate antimicrobial therapy should be started
immediately after diagnosis, with surgical aspiration performed to identify the
causative pathogen and avoid intraventricular rupture of the brain abscesses.

DOI: 10.1186/s13256-020-02436-3 
PMCID: PMC7372864
PMID: 32690062 

