
1. mSphere. 2020 Aug 5;5(4). pii: e00689-20. doi: 10.1128/mSphere.00689-20.

Bacteria Modify Candida albicans Hypha Formation, Microcolony Properties, and
Survival within Macrophages.

Salvatori O(1), Kumar R(1), Metcalfe S(1), Vickerman M(1), Kay JG(1), Edgerton
M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Biology, School of Dental Medicine, University at Buffalo, 
Buffalo, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Oral Biology, School of Dental Medicine, University at Buffalo, 
Buffalo, New York, USA edgerto@buffalo.edu.

Phagocytic cells are crucial components of the innate immune system preventing
Candida albicans mucosal infections. Streptococcus gordonii and Pseudomonas
aeruginosa often colonize mucosal sites, along with C. albicans, and yet
interkingdom interactions that might alter the survival and escape of fungi from 
macrophages are not understood. Murine macrophages were coinfected with S.
gordonii or P. aeruginosa, along with C. albicans to evaluate changes in fungal
survival. S. gordonii increased C. albicans survival and filamentation within
macrophage phagosomes, while P. aeruginosa reduced fungal survival and
filamentation. Coinfection with S. gordonii resulted in greater escape of C.
albicans from macrophages and increased size of fungal microcolonies formed on
macrophage monolayers, while coinfection with P. aeruginosa reduced macrophage
escape and produced smaller microcolonies. Microcolonies formed in the presence
of P. aeruginosa cells outside macrophages also had significantly reduced size
that was not found with P. aeruginosa phenazine deletion mutants. S. gordonii
cells, as well as S. gordonii heat-fixed culture supernatants, increased C.
albicans microcolony biomass but also resulted in microcolony detachment. A
heat-resistant, trypsin-sensitive pheromone processed by S. gordonii Eep was
needed for these effects. The majority of fungal microcolonies formed on human
epithelial monolayers with S. gordonii supernatants developed as large floating
structures with no detectable invasion of epithelium, along with reduced gene
expression of C. albicans HYR1, EAP1, and HWP2 adhesins. However, a subset of C. 
albicans microcolonies was smaller and had greater epithelial invasiveness
compared to microcolonies grown without S. gordonii Thus, bacteria can alter the 
killing and escape of C. albicans from macrophages and contribute to changes in
C. albicans pathogenicity.IMPORTANCE Candida albicans is the predominant fungus
colonizing the oral cavity that can have both synergistic and antagonistic
interactions with other bacteria. Interkingdom polymicrobial associations modify 
fungal pathogenicity and are believed to increase microbial resistance to innate 
immunity. However, it is not known how these interactions alter fungal survival
during phagocytic killing. We demonstrated that secreted molecules of S. gordonii
and P. aeruginosa alter C. albicans survival within the phagosome of macrophages 
and alter fungal pathogenic phenotypes, including filamentation and microcolony
formation. Moreover, we provide evidence for a dual interaction between S.
gordonii and C. albicans such that S. gordonii signaling peptides can promote C. 
albicans commensalism by decreasing microcolony attachment while increasing
invasion in epithelial cells. Our results identify bacterial diffusible factors
as an attractive target to modify virulence of C. albicans in polymicrobial
infections.

Copyright Â© 2020 Salvatori et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSphere.00689-20 
PMCID: PMC7407070
PMID: 32759336 

