
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Aug 6;10(1):13201. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-70024-y.

Randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of oral probiotic
Streptococcus salivarius M18 on head and neck cancer patients post-radiotherapy: 
a pilot study.

Vesty A(1), Gear K(2), Boutell S(3), Taylor MW(4)(5), Douglas RG(1), Biswas K(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, The University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Auckland District Health Board, Auckland,
New Zealand.
(3)Oral Health, Auckland University of Technology, Auckland, New Zealand.
(4)School of Biological Sciences, The University of Auckland, Auckland, New
Zealand.
(5)Maurice Wilkins Centre for Molecular Biodiscovery, The University of Auckland,
Auckland, New Zealand.
(6)Department of Surgery, The University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
k.biswas@auckland.ac.nz.

Xerostomia detrimentally affects the oral health of many head and neck cancer
patients who undergo radiotherapy. Its sequelae become an ongoing burden for
patients that often manifest as periodontal disease and dental decay. Bacteria
play a major role in the pathogenesis of these conditions and here we explore the
use of an oral probiotic to beneficially modulate the oral bacterial community
post-radiotherapy. In this pilot study, a four-week intervention with oral
probiotic lozenges containing Streptococcus salivarius M18 was trialled in seven 
patients. Post-intervention changes in oral health and in the composition of the 
plaque and saliva bacterial communities were compared with six patients in a
placebo group. An improvement in periodontal screening and plaque index scores
was observed in both groups after the intervention period. The oral probiotic
lozenges did not significantly impact bacterial community composition or
diversity, nor did the probiotic lozenges increase the relative sequence
abundance of ZOTU_1 (the probiotic-associated sequence assigned to S. salivarius)
detected in the samples. Network analyses suggest negative interactions occurred 
between ZOTU_1 and species from the periopathogenic genera Campylobacter,
Fretibacterium, Selenomonas and Treponema but further investigation is required
to more fully understand the beneficial properties of this oral probiotic.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-70024-y 
PMCID: PMC7411050
PMID: 32764634 

