
1. J Dairy Res. 2020 Aug;87(3):277-281. doi: 10.1017/S0022029920000734. Epub 2020
Sep 4.

Streptococcus spp. from bulk-tank milk and milking machine teatcups on small
ruminant farms, and factors potentially associated with their isolation.

Chatzopoulos DC(1), Lianou DT(1), Michael CK(1), Gougoulis DA(1), Mavrogianni
VS(1), Vasileiou NGC(1), Katsafadou AI(1), Politis AP(1), Kordalis NG(1),
Katsarou EI(1), Ioannidi KS(1), Petinaki E(2), Fthenakis GC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Faculty, University of Thessaly, Karditsa, Greece.
(2)University Hospital of Larissa, Larissa, Greece.

The objectives of this work were (a) to determine the presence of streptococci in
samples from small ruminant dairy farms (bulk-tank milk and, where possible,
teatcup swabs), (b) to investigate the potential adverse effects of streptococci 
on milk quality and (c) to investigate the importance of some husbandry factors
for the isolation of streptococci. Bulk-tank milk samples and teatcups swab
samples were examined bacteriologically for the presence of streptococci. Somatic
cell counting and milk composition measurements were also performed. The
husbandry factors present in each farm were assessed for potential associations
with the isolation of streptococci. Streptococci were isolated from milk samples 
from 31.4% of sheep and 17.4% of goat farms and from 4.8% of sheep and 5.9% of
goat teatcups. Streptococci were isolated more frequently from the upper part
than the lower part of teatcups: 5.0% vs. 1.9%. Most isolates (57.9%) were
identified as Streptococcus uberis. Most isolates (68.4%) were slime-producing;
slime-production was more frequent among isolates from teatcups (83.3%) than from
bulk-tank milk (55.0%). Somatic cell counts and milk composition did not differ
between farms in which streptococci were or were not isolated. Machine-milking
was associated with the isolation of streptococci from bulk-tank milk samples.
The initial stage of the milking period (first two months) was found to be
associated with the isolation of streptococci from milking machine teatcups in
sheep farms only.

DOI: 10.1017/S0022029920000734 
PMID: 32883377 

