
1. Cureus. 2020 Aug 18;12(8):e9827. doi: 10.7759/cureus.9827.

A Case Report of Cardiobacterium hominis Endocarditis in a Pregnant Woman.

Sarumathi D(1), Anitha G(1), R D(1), Thilak C R(2), Sastry AS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and
Research, Puducherry, IND.
(2)Cardiothoracic Surgery, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education
and Research, Puducherry, IND.

Infective endocarditis (IE) is an infrequent endovascular disease, which can
result in significant mortality and morbidity. Staphylococcus aureus and viridans
streptococci remain the most common etiological agent. Cardiobacterium hominis, a
member of the HACEK
(Haemophilus species, Aggregatibacter species, Cardiobacterium hominis, Eikenella
corrodens, and Kingella species) group of fastidious gram-negative bacillus, is a
part of normal upper respiratory flora and a rare cause implicated in IE. Cases
of Cardiobacterium hominis endocarditis are being increasingly reported in last
few years due to advancement in automated blood culture system such as BacT/ALERT
Virtuo® and identification system such as MALDI-TOF MS (matrix-assisted laser
desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry). We herein report a first
case of Cardiobacterium hominis endocarditis in a pregnant woman at 20 weeks of
gestation. Following spontaneous abortion and evacuation of the fetus,
appropriate surgical intervention under heparinized condition and
pathogen-directed medical intervention was initiated in this patient. This case
report highlights the importance of appropriate antimicrobial therapy, which
augments earlier resolution of the disease.

Copyright © 2020, Sarumathi et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.9827 
PMCID: PMC7495949
PMID: 32953336 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

