
1. Dent J (Basel). 2020 May 2;8(2). pii: E39. doi: 10.3390/dj8020039.

Effects of Oral Commensal Streptococci on Porphyromonas gingivalis Invasion into 
Oral Epithelial Cells.

Hanel AN(1)(2), Herzog HM(1), James MG(1), Cuadra GA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Muhlenberg College, 2400 W. Chew Street, Allentown, PA 
18104, USA.
(2)College of Dental Medicine, Columbia University, 622 W 168th St, New York, NY 
10032, USA.

The objective of this study was to determine if the interaction between common
oral commensal bacteria and oral epithelial cells would provide protective
effects against the invasion of periodontopathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis. Oral
epithelial OKF6/Tert cells were used in co-cultures with Streptococcus gordonii, 
Streptococcus oralis, Streptococcus mitis, and Streptococcus intermedius. The
viability of OKF6/Tert cells following a bacterial challenge was evaluated by
trypan blue exclusion. The adherence of commensal species was determined by CFU
counts. P. gingivalis invasion in OKF6/Tert cells was assessed before and after
exposure to commensal species according to CFU counts. Viability assays show that
only S. gordonii and S. intermedius display low toxicity toward OKF6/Tert cells. 
Both commensals adhere to OKF6/Tert cells at an average ratio of 1 CFU to 10
cells. P. gingivalis invasion into host cells is significantly reduced by 25% or 
60% after exposure to S. gordonii or S. intermedius, respectively. The results
suggest that these commensal species bind to host cells and diminish P.
gingivalis invasion. This is important in the context of periodontal disease
since P. gingivalis primarily acts on the host by invading it. Therefore, efforts
to decrease invasion will eventually lead to future therapies harnessing the
mechanisms employed by oral commensal bacteria.

DOI: 10.3390/dj8020039 
PMCID: PMC7345648
PMID: 32370286 

