
1. Jpn J Infect Dis. 2020 May 22;73(3):242-249. doi: 10.7883/yoken.JJID.2019.392.
Epub 2020 Jan 31.

Novel Quinolone Nonsusceptible Streptococcus canis Strains with Point Mutations
in Quinolone Resistance-Determining Regions and Their Related Factors.

Fukushima Y(1), Tsuyuki Y(1)(2), Goto M(1), Yoshida H(1), Takahashi T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Infectious Diseases, Graduate School of Infection Control
Sciences & Kitasato Institute for Life Sciences, Kitasato University.
(2)Division of Clinical Laboratory, Sanritsu Zelkova Veterinary Laboratory.

This study investigated quinolone nonsusceptible Streptococcus canis with point
mutations in quinolone resistance-determining regions (QRDRs). After selecting
targets from 185 isolates, we tested antimicrobial susceptibility using
levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin, and moxifloxacin. We also determined
the amino acid sequences of QRDRs in gyrA/gyrB/parC/parE genes and their point
mutations. Finally, we performed S. canis-derived M-like protein (SCM) allele
typing, multilocus sequence typing, and antimicrobial resistance genotyping.
Correlations between nonsusceptible strains and their related factors were
examined. We found 13 (7.0%) nonsusceptible isolates consisting of two classes,
high-level minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) (n = 7, 3.8%) and low-level
MICs (n = 6, 3.2%). Mutations Ser81Phe/Ser81Tyr/Glu85Lys in gyrA,
Ser67Phe/Ser67Tyr/Asp71Tyr in parC, Asp438Asn in parE, and Gly408Asp in gyrB were
observed in these nonsusceptible strains. Common mutations included Ser81 and
Ser67/Asp71; additionally, we found one strain each with Glu85, Asp438, and
Gly408 mutations. There was a significant correlation between nonsusceptible
isolates and the presence of SCM allele type 2, sequence type 46,
tetracyclineresistance genes, and macrolide/lincosamide-resistance genes. These
results could be used in future, by veterinarians while treating companion
animals with clinical symptoms of streptococcal infections.

DOI: 10.7883/yoken.JJID.2019.392 
PMID: 32009056 

