
1. J Clin Med. 2020 Aug 13;9(8). pii: E2627. doi: 10.3390/jcm9082627.

Effect of Calcium Chloride Hydrothermal Treatment of Titanium on Protein,
Cellular, and Bacterial Adhesion Properties.

Haraguchi T(1), Ayukawa Y(1), Shibata Y(2), Takeshita T(2), Atsuta I(3), Ogino
Y(4), Yasunami N(1), Yamashita Y(2), Koyano K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Implant and Rehabilitative Dentistry, Division of Oral
Rehabilitation, Faculty of Dental Science, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi,
Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.
(2)Section of Preventive and Public Health Dentistry, Division of Oral Health,
Growth and Development, Faculty of Dental Science, Kyushu University, 3-1-1
Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.
(3)Division of Advanced Dental Devices and Therapeutics, Faculty of Dental
Science, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.
(4)Section of Fixed Prosthodontics, Division of Oral Rehabilitation, Faculty of
Dental Science, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, 
Japan.

Topographical modification of the dental implant surface is one of the main
topics for the improvement of the material, however, the roughened surface has
some risks for peri-implantitis. A hydrothermal treatment (HT) of titanium with
calcium chloride solution was reported to improve osseointegration and soft
tissue sealing without changing the surface topography; however, its mechanism is
unclear. We herewith investigated the interaction between extracellular matrix
(ECM) protein and HT titanium. Furthermore, we also clarified the bacterial
interaction. We employed two kinds of HT, HT with water (DW-HT) and HT with
calcium chloride solution (Ca-HT). As a result, the adsorptions of both
laminin-332 and osteopontin onto the Ca-HT surface were enhanced. In contrast,
the adsorption of albumin, which was reported to have no cell adhesion capacity, 
was not influenced by Ca-HT. Osteoblast adhesion onto Ca-HT was also enhanced.
Although Ca-HT was reported to enhance both epithelial cell attachment strength
and in vivo peri-implant epithelial bonding, the number of epithelial cell
attachment was not increased even after HT. Ca-HT had no impact in the adhesion
of Streptococcus gordonii. These results suggest that Ca-HT enhances cell
adhesion onto titanium without increasing bacterial adhesion, and the improvement
of ECM protein adsorption is supposed to contribute to cell adhesion.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm9082627 
PMCID: PMC7463643
PMID: 32823609 

