
1. Biofouling. 2020 Mar;36(3):256-265. doi: 10.1080/08927014.2020.1755429. Epub 2020
Apr 24.

Tea extracts differentially inhibit Streptococcus mutans and Streptococcus
sobrinus biofilm colonization depending on the steeping temperature.

Kim MA(1), Kim JH(2), Nam OH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Conservative Dentistry, School of Dentistry and Institute of
Oral Bioscience, Jeonbuk National University, Jeonju, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Pediatric Dentistry, School of Dentistry, Jeonbuk National
University, Jeonju, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Pediatric Dentistry, School of Dentistry, Kyung Hee University, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.

This study aimed to evaluate the effects of tea extracts on oral biofilm
colonization depending on steeping temperature. S. mutans and S. sobrinus were
cultured and treated with green or black tea extracts prepared under different
steeping conditions. Biofilm formation, glucosyltransferase (GTF) levels,
bacterial growth, and acidogenicity were evaluated. Biofilms were also assessed
by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and confocal laser scanning microscopy.
All extracts with hot steeping showed higher inhibitory effects on biofilm
formation and cell viability and lower GTF levels compared with those with cold
steeping (p < 0.05). Hot steeping significantly reduced bacterial growth
(p < 0.05) and maintained the pH. Catechins were only identified from hot
steeping extracts. Within the limits of this study, extracts with cold steeping
showed lower inhibitory effects on oral biofilms. The different effects between
steeping extracts may be attributed to the difference in catechins released from 
tea extracts under the different steep conditions.

DOI: 10.1080/08927014.2020.1755429 
PMID: 32326756  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

