
1. Dent Mater. 2020 Oct;36(10):e316-e328. doi: 10.1016/j.dental.2020.08.001. Epub
2020 Aug 23.

Nano-calcium phosphate and dimethylaminohexadecyl methacrylate adhesive for
dentin remineralization in a biofilm-challenged environment.

Tao S(1), Su Z(1), Xiang Z(1), Xu HHK(2), Weir MD(2), Fan M(1), Yu Z(1), Zhou
X(1), Liang K(3), Li J(4).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases, National Clinical Research Center for
Oral Diseases, Department of Cariology and Endodontics, West China Hospital of
Stomatology, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China.
(2)Department of Advanced Oral Sciences and Therapeutics, University of Maryland 
School of Dentistry, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA; Center for Stem Cell Biology &
Regenerative Medicine, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD
21201, USA.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases, National Clinical Research Center for
Oral Diseases, Department of Cariology and Endodontics, West China Hospital of
Stomatology, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China; Department of Advanced
Oral Sciences and Therapeutics, University of Maryland School of Dentistry,
Baltimore, MD 21201, USA; Center for Stem Cell Biology & Regenerative Medicine,
University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. Electronic
address: kunnengliang@163.com.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases, National Clinical Research Center for
Oral Diseases, Department of Cariology and Endodontics, West China Hospital of
Stomatology, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China. Electronic address:
jiyaoliscu@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: Dentin remineralization at the bonded interface would protect it from 
external risk factors, therefore, would enhance the longevity of restoration and 
combat secondary caries. Dental biofilm, as one of the critical biological
factors in caries formation, should not be neglected in the assessment of caries 
preventive agents. In this work, the remineralization effectiveness of
demineralized human dentin in a multi-species dental biofilm environment via an
adhesive containing nanoparticles of amorphous calcium phosphate (NACP) and
dimethylaminohexadecyl methacrylate (DMAHDM) was investigated.
METHODS: Dentin demineralization was promoted by subjecting samples to a
three-species acidic biofilm containing Streptococcus mutans, Streptococcus
sanguinis, Streptococcus gordonii for 24h. Samples were divided into a control
group, a DMAHDM adhesive group, an NACP group, and an NACP+DMAHDM adhesive group.
A bonded model containing a control-bonded group, a DMAHDM-bonded group, an
NACP-bonded group, and an NACP+DMAHDM-bonded group was also included in this
study. All samples were subjected to a remineralization protocol consisting of
4-h exposure per 24-h period in brain heart infusion broth plus 1% sucrose (BHIS)
followed by immersion in artificial saliva for the remaining period. The pH of
BHIS after 4-h immersion was measured every other day. After 14 days, the biofilm
was assessed for colony-forming unit (CFU) count, lactic acid production,
live/dead staining, and calcium and phosphate content. The mineral changes in the
demineralized dentin samples were analyzed by transverse microradiography.
RESULTS: The in vitro experiment results showed that the NACP+DMAHDM adhesive
effectively achieved acid neutralization, decreased biofilm colony-forming unit
(CFU) count, decreased biofilm lactic acid production, and increased biofilm
calcium and phosphate content. The NACP+DMAHDM adhesive group had higher
remineralization value than the NACP or DMAHDM alone adhesive group.
SIGNIFICANCE: The NACP+DMAHDM adhesive was effective in remineralizing dentin
lesion in a biofilm model. It is promising to use NACP+DMAHDM adhesive to protect
bonded interface, inhibit secondary caries, and prolong the longevity of
restoration.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Academy of Dental Materials. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dental.2020.08.001 
PMID: 32847685 

