
1. Med Sci Monit. 2020 Aug 1;26:e921886. doi: 10.12659/MSM.921886.

Streptococcus bovis Contributes to the Development of Colorectal Cancer via
Recruiting CD11b⁺TLR-4⁺ Cells.

Deng Q(1), Wang C(2), Yu K(3), Wang Y(1), Yang Q(2), Zhang J(1), Xu X(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China (mainland).
(2)Department of Anorectum, The Third People's Hospital of Hangzhou, Hangzhou,
Zhejiang, China (mainland).
(3)Department of Ultrasonography, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China (mainland).
(4)Department of Anorectal Surgery, The First People's Hospital of Yuhang
District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China (mainland).

BACKGROUND An increasing number of studies have demonstrated that Streptococcus
bovis and its concomitant inflammatory factors concentrate in the intestine in
colorectal cancer (CRC). However, the molecular mechanism of S. bovis on
colorectal tumorigenesis remains unclear. This study aimed to explore the role of
S. bovis in carcinogenesis and its potential mechanism in CRC of mice orally
pretreated with S. bovis. MATERIAL AND METHODS The colons of experimental mice
were collected and evaluated for the extent of neoplasm. In addition, comparative
feces DNA sequencing was adopted to verify the abundance change of S. bovis
during the progression of CRC in patients. RESULTS The results of this study
found that S. bovis is more likely to be present at higher levels in patients
with progressive colorectal carcinoma compared to those adenoma patients and
healthy volunteers (P<0.05). Pretreatment with S. bovis aggravated tumor
formation in mice, resulting in more substantial and a higher number of tumor
nodes (P<0.05). A cytokine expression pattern with increased levels of IL-6,
Scyb1, Ptgs2, IL-1ß, TNF, and Ccl2 was detected in S. bovis pretreated CRC mice
(all P<0.05). Furthermore, S. bovis recruited myeloid cells, especially
CD11b⁺TLR-4⁺ cells, which could promote pro-tumor immunity in the tumor
microenvironment (P<0.05). CONCLUSIONS Collectively, our study indicates that S. 
bovis may induce a suppressive immunity that is conducive to CRC by recruiting
tumor-infiltrating CD11b⁺TLR-4⁺ cells. In conclusion, S. bovis contributes to
colorectal tumorigenesis via recruiting CD11b⁺TLR-4⁺ cells.

DOI: 10.12659/MSM.921886 
PMCID: PMC7418781
PMID: 32737964 

