
1. Genomics. 2020 Sep;112(5):3783-3793. doi: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2020.04.014. Epub 2020 
Apr 22.

Pathogenic and antimicrobial resistance genes in Streptococcus oralis strains
revealed by comparative genome analysis.

Zhou J(1), Sun T(1), Kang W(1), Tang D(1), Feng Q(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Microbiome, School and Hospital of Stomatology, Shandong
University, Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Oral Tissue Regeneration,
Shandong Engineering Laboratory for Dental Materials and Oral Tissue
Regeneration, No. 44-1 Wenhua Road West, 250012 Jinan, Shandong, China.
(2)Department of Human Microbiome, School and Hospital of Stomatology, Shandong
University, Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Oral Tissue Regeneration,
Shandong Engineering Laboratory for Dental Materials and Oral Tissue
Regeneration, No. 44-1 Wenhua Road West, 250012 Jinan, Shandong, China; State Key
Laboratory of Microbial Technology, Shandong University,266237 Qingdao, Shandong,
China; NHC Key Laboratory of Otorhinolaryngology (Shandong University), Jinan,
Shandong, China. Electronic address: fengqiang@sdu.edu.cn.

Streptococcus oralis is an early colonizer bacterium in dental plaques and is
considered a potential pathogen of infective endocarditis (IE) disease. In this
study, we built a complete genome map of Streptococcus oralis strain SOT,
Streptococcus oralis strain SOD and Streptococcus infantis strain SO and
performed comparative genomic analysis among these three strains. The results
showed that there are five genomic islands (GIs) in strain SOT and one CRISPR in 
strain SOD. Each genome harbors various pathogenic genes related to diseases and 
drug resistance, while the antibiotic resistance genes in strains SOT and SOD
were quite similar but different from those in strain SO. In addition, we
identified 17 main virulence factors and capsule-related genes in three strains. 
These results suggest the pathogenic potential of Streptococcus strains, which
lay a foundation for the prevention and treatment of a Streptococcus oralis
infection.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2020.04.014 
PMID: 32334114 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest All authors
declare that they have no competing interests.

