
1. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2020 Sep 25;367(18). pii: fnaa153. doi:
10.1093/femsle/fnaa153.

Tyrosine tRNA synthetase as a novel extracellular immunomodulatory protein in
Streptococcus anginosus.

Shimoyama Y(1), Ishikawa T(1), Kodama Y(1), Kimura S(2), Sasaki M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Microbiology, Department of Microbiology, Iwate Medical 
University, 1-1-1 Idai-dori, Yahaba-cho, Shiwa-gun, Iwate 028-3694, Japan.
(2)Department of Oral Hygiene, Kansai Women's College, Asahigaoka 3-11-1,
Kashiwara, Osaka 582-0026, Japan.

Streptococcus anginosus is frequently detected in patients with infective
endocarditis, abscesses or oral cancer. Although S. anginosus is considered the
causative pathogen of these diseases, the pathogenic mechanisms of the bacterium 
have remained unclear. Previously, we suggested that an extracellular antigen
from S. anginosus (SAA) serves as a pathogenic factor by inducing nitric oxide
production in murine macrophages. In the present study, we identified SAA using
LC-MS/MS and assessed the biological activities of His-tagged recombinant SAA in 
murine macrophages. SAA was identified as a tyrosine tRNA synthetase (SaTyrRS)
that was isolated from the extracellular fraction of S. anginosus but not from
other oral streptococci. In addition, inducible nitric oxide synthase and TNF-α
mRNA expression was induced in recombinant SaTyrRS-stimulated murine macrophages.
However, their mRNA expression was not induced in macrophages stimulated with
truncated or heat-inactivated recombinant SaTyrRS, and the activation motif was
identified as Arg264-Thr270. Consequently, these results indicated that SaTyrRS
could be a novel and specific immunomodulatory protein in S. anginosus.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of FEMS.

DOI: 10.1093/femsle/fnaa153 
PMID: 32926111 

