
1. PLoS One. 2020 Jun 24;15(6):e0234524. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0234524.
eCollection 2020.

Adhesion of streptococci to titanium and zirconia.

Oda Y(1), Miura T(2), Mori G(1), Sasaki H(1), Ito T(1), Yoshinari M(2), Yajima
Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Implantology, Tokyo Dental College,
Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Oral Health Science Center, Tokyo Dental College, Tokyo, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the adherence of streptococci to disks 
of titanium (commercially pure titanium: CpTi) and zirconia (tetragonal zirconia 
polycrystals: TZP). CpTi and yttria-stabilized TZP disks with a mirror-polished
surface were used as specimens. The arithmetic mean surface roughness (Ra and Sa)
and the surface wettability of the experimental specimens were measured. For
analyzing the outermost layer of the experimental specimens, X-ray photoelectron 
spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was performed. Streptococcus sanguinis, S. gordonii, 
S. oralis, and S. mutans were used as streptococcal bacterial strains. These
bacterial cultures were grown for 24 h on CpTi and TZP. The number of bacterial
adhesions was estimated using an ATP-bioluminescent assay, and scanning electron 
microscope (SEM) observation of the adhered bacterial specimens was performed. No
significant differences in surface roughness or wettability were found between
CpTi and TZP. In XPS analyses, outermost layer of CpTi included Ti0 and Ti4+, and
outermost layer of TZP included Zr4+. In the cell adhesion assay, the adherences 
of S. sanguinis, S. gordonii, and S. oralis to TZP were significantly lower than 
those to CpTi (p < 0.05); however, significant difference was not observed for S.
mutans among the specimens. The adherence to CpTi and TZP of S. mutans was
significantly lower than that of S. sanguinis, S. gordonii, and S. oralis. These 
results were confirmed by SEM. S. sanguinis, S. gordonii, and S. oralis adhered
less to TZP than to CpTi, but the adherence of S. mutans was similar to both
surfaces. S. mutans was less adherent compare with the other streptococci tested 
in those specimens.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0234524 
PMCID: PMC7314031
PMID: 32579584  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

