
1. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2020 May 28;30(5):700-707. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1908.08038.

Evaluation of Nematicidal Activity of Streptomyces yatensis KRA-28 against
Meloidogyne incognita.

Park EJ(1)(2), Jang HJ(1), Park CS(1), Lee SJ(1), Lee S(1), Kim KH(1), Yun BS(2),
Lee SW(1), Rho MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Immunoregulatory Materials Research Center, Korea Research Institute of
Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB), Jeongeup 56212, Republic of Korea.
(2)Division of Biotechnology and Advanced Institute of Environment and
Bioscience, College of Environmental and Bioresource Sciences, Jeonbuk National
University, Iksan 54596, Republic of Korea.

The root-knot nematode (Meloidogyne incognita) is an important pathogen in crop
cultivation, however, few methods are available to control this parasitic
roundworm. In this study, the nematicidal effects of approximately 30
Streptomyces strains isolated from soil samples of Mt. Naejang (Korea) were
tested against Meloidogyne incognita, and the culture broth of the strains KRA-
24 and KRA-28 exhibited approximately 75% and 85% insecticidal activity,
respectively, in in vitro assays. In in vivo pot experiments, these strains
reduced the number of nematodes in the soil and the number of egg masses in the
roots of red peppers. The two strains also survived in the presence of
insecticidal agents (0.1 to 3.0%) such as fosthiazate, ethoprophos and terbufos
when they were used in parallel. The mixture of KRA-24 or KRA-28 culture broth
and fosthiazate exhibited nematicidal effects that were similar to those observed
when KRA-24 or KRA-28 were used alone. Our results clearly suggest that the
Streptomyces strains KRA-24 and KRA-28 should be promoted as a biocontrol agent
against Meloidogyne incognita.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1908.08038 
PMID: 32482935 

