
1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2020 Sep 29;117(39):24494-24502. doi:
10.1073/pnas.2008427117. Epub 2020 Sep 9.

Structure-function studies of Rgg binding to pheromones and target promoters
reveal a model of transcription factor interplay.

Capodagli GC(1), Tylor KM(2), Kaelber JT(3)(4), Petrou VI(5)(6), Federle MJ(7),
Neiditch MB(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Biochemistry, and Molecular Genetics, New Jersey
Medical School, Rutgers Biomedical Health Sciences, Newark, NJ 07103.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Illinois at Chicago, 
Chicago, IL 60607.
(3)Rutgers New Jersey Cryo-Electron Microscopy & Tomography Core Facility,
Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ 08854.
(4)Institute for Quantitative Biomedicine, Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ
08854.
(5)Department of Microbiology, Biochemistry, and Molecular Genetics, New Jersey
Medical School, Rutgers Biomedical Health Sciences, Newark, NJ 07103;
vasileios.petrou@rutgers.edu mfederle@uic.edu matthew.neiditch@rutgers.edu.
(6)Center for Immunity and Inflammation, New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers
Biomedical Health Sciences, Newark, NJ 07103.
(7)Department of Pharamaceutical Sciences, Center for Biomolecular Sciences,
University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL 60607 vasileios.petrou@rutgers.edu
mfederle@uic.edu matthew.neiditch@rutgers.edu.

Regulator gene of glucosyltransferase (Rgg) family proteins, such as Rgg2 and
Rgg3, have emerged as primary quorum-sensing regulated transcription factors in
Streptococcus species, controlling virulence, antimicrobial resistance, and
biofilm formation. Rgg2 and Rgg3 function is regulated by their interaction with 
oligopeptide quorum-sensing signals called short hydrophobic peptides (SHPs). The
molecular basis of Rgg-SHP and Rgg-target DNA promoter specificity was unknown.
To close this gap, we determined the cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) structure 
of Streptococcus thermophilus Rgg3 bound to its quorum-sensing signal, SHP3, and 
the X-ray crystal structure of Rgg3 alone. Comparison of these structures with
that of an Rgg in complex with cyclosporin A (CsA), an inhibitor of SHP-induced
Rgg activity, reveals the molecular basis of CsA function. Furthermore, to
determine how Rgg proteins recognize DNA promoters, we determined X-ray crystal
structures of both Streptococcus dysgalactiae Rgg2 and S. thermophilus Rgg3 in
complex with their target DNA promoters. The physiological importance of observed
Rgg-DNA interactions was dissected using in vivo genetic experiments and in vitro
biochemical assays. Based on these structure-function studies, we present a
revised unifying model of Rgg regulatory interplay. In contrast to existing
models, where Rgg2 proteins are transcriptional activators and Rgg3 proteins are 
transcriptional repressors, we propose that both are capable of transcriptional
activation. However, when Rgg proteins with different activation requirements
compete for the same DNA promoters, those with more stringent activation
requirements function as repressors by blocking promoter access of SHP-bound
conformationally active Rgg proteins. While a similar gene expression regulatory 
scenario has not been previously described, in all likelihood it is not unique to
streptococci.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2008427117 
PMID: 32907945 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.

