
1. Am J Med Case Rep. 2020;8(11):405-408. doi: 10.12691/ajmcr-8-11-7. Epub 2020 Jul 
23.

Paravalvular Abscess as a Complication of Streptococcus Salivarius Infective
Endocarditis of a Bioprosthetic Aortic Valve.

Hevroni G(1), Maryniak A(1), Cepeda-Mora D(1), Salifu MO(1), McFarlane SI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, SUNY-Downstate Health Science University,
Brooklyn, New York, United States-11203.

Rates of implantation of prosthetic valves and cardiac devices have increased
significantly in the last thirty years, accounting, at least in-part, for the
growing incidence of infective endocarditis cases. Prosthetic valve endocarditis 
(PVE) is an endovascular, microbial infection occurring on parts of a valve
prosthesis or on reconstructed native heart valves. We present a case of a
63-year-old man with multiple comorbidities including extensive cardiovascular
disease, who recently underwent bioprosthetic aortic valve replacement. Patient
presented to the emergency department with exertional chest pain, dyspnea, fever,
melena and lethargy. Blood cultures grew Streptococcus salivarius and
transesophageal echocardiography confirmed PVE with an aortic paravalvular
abscess. The patient was treated with appropriate antimicrobial therapy based on 
culture sensitivity and subsequently referred to cardiothoracic surgery for
urgent evaluation. This case highlights several important points which include
but are not limited to: investigation into the pathogen Streptococcus salivarius 
and its relationship to other known pathogens, understanding of the complications
associated with PVE, and the importance of early identification of PVE and
initiation of medical and surgical therapy with respect to prognosis.

DOI: 10.12691/ajmcr-8-11-7 
PMCID: PMC7426022
PMID: 32802942 

