
1. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2020 Sep 12. pii: S1081-1206(20)31006-1. doi:
10.1016/j.anai.2020.09.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Gender effects in the association between airway microbiome and asthma.

Chen R(1), Wang L(2), Koch T(1), Curtis V(1), Yin-DeClue H(1), Handley SA(3),
Shan L(1), Holtzman MJ(1), Castro M(4), Wang L(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
MO, 63110 USA.
(2)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA; Edison Family Center for Genome Sciences &
Systems Biology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110,
USA.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and
Sleep Medicine, University of Kansas School of Medicine, Kansas City, KS, 66160, 
USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
MO, 63110 USA. Electronic address: Leyao.wang@wustl.edu.

BACKGROUND: Gender differences are found in asthma susceptibility and severity.
Accumulating evidence has linked airway microbiome dysbiosis with asthma and the 
airway microbial communities are found to be different by gender. However,
whether gender modifies the link between airway microbiome and asthma has not
been investigated.
OBJECTIVE: We aim to evaluate gender effects in the association between airway
microbiome and asthma.
METHODS: We analyzed induced sputum samples from 47 subjects (n =23 asthmatics
and n =24 normal controls) using 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing methods. The
bacterial composition was analyzed for gender differences. Bacterial associations
with asthma were assessed in each gender at the core taxa and genus level.
RESULTS: The microbiome in induced sputum differed in females versus males at the
community level. There are five core bacterial taxa that appear in all samples.
No gender-specific core taxa was detected. The most abundant core taxon,
Streptococcus salivarius , was significantly enriched in females than in males
(p=0.02). Within each gender, individuals with relatively lower abundance of S.
salivarius were more likely to be asthmatic (p=0.006). Asthmatic patients of both
genders contained increased Lactobacillus spp. in their sputum compared to normal
controls (adjusted p=0.01). Haemophilus spp. were associated with asthma in males
and not in females.
CONCLUSION: The airway microbiome differed by gender and gender effects exist in 
the association of airway microbial markers and asthma. Future airway microbiome 
studies may yield better resolution if the context of specific gender is
considered. The airway microbiome is a potential mechanism driving gender
differences in asthma.

Copyright Â© 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anai.2020.09.007 
PMID: 32931909 

