
1. Food Technol Biotechnol. 2020 Jun;58(2):192-202. doi: 10.17113/ftb.58.02.20.6308.

Antidiabetic and Hypolipidaemic Action of Finger Millet (Eleusine
coracana)-Enriched Probiotic Fermented Milk: An in vivo Rat Study.

Chaudhary JK(1), Mudgal S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dairy Microbiology Department, SMC College of Dairy Science, Anand
Agricultural University, Anand 388 110, Gujarat, India.

Research background: Diabetes is a chronic multi-system disease having long term 
consequences to the health of people suffering from it. This study investigates
the role of finger millet (Eleusine coracana)-enriched probiotic fermented milk
in alleviating the diabetic complications in streptozotocin-induced diabetic
rats.
Experimental approach: The probiotic strain used in the study was Lactobacillus
helveticus MTCC 5463. Study comprised six groups each containing 6 Sprague Dawley
rats: two controls (nondiabetic and diabetic), and four diabetic groups fed
finger millet-enriched probiotic fermented milk, probiotic fermented milk, finger
millet flour or metformin (standard drug). Samples were administered orally for
four weeks, and parameters associated with diabetic disorders were studied.
Results and conclusions: Oral administration of finger millet-enriched milk
significantly (p<0.001) decreased (64.26%) the fasting blood glucose level of
diabetic rats compared to metformin (56.43%) and diabetic groups receiving the
probiotic fermented milk (18.88%) and finger millet flour (47.14%) after four
weeks of treatment. The finger millet-enriched milk significantly ameliorated the
diabetic symptoms polyphagia and polydipsia and improved body mass. In diabetic
control group, body mass was reduced up to 15.60% at the end of experiment, while
in the group receiving the probiotic fermented milk, body mass significantly
(p<0.0001) increased by about 5-30%. Significant (p<0.0001) reduction in total
cholesterol, triglyceride levels in the groups treated with finger millet flour, 
finger millet-enriched probiotic fermented milk and probiotic fermented milk was 
observed compared to diabetic control rats. The probiotic fermented milk enriched
with finger millet caused significant (p<0.05) decrease in low-density
lipoprotein and very-low-density lipoprotein levels (p<0.0001) and insignificant 
increase in high-density lipoprotein level. A reversal of altered activities of
hepatic marker enzymes aspartate transaminase and alanine transaminase was
observed in the group receiving the probiotic milk enriched with finger millet.
Histological observations of pancreatic tissues and liver showed that the
enriched milk prevents more severe changes in the acinar cells and ameliorated
the inflammation and alteration in the liver structure to some extent. Therefore,
the finger millet-enriched probiotic fermented milk can be a potential functional
food in the management of diabetes.
Novelty and scientific contribution: This is the only paper reporting about the
antidiabetic potential of finger millet-enriched milk fermented using probiotic
Lactobacillus helveticus MTCC 5463 and Streptococcus thermophilus MTCC 5460. It
also shows the synergistic antidiabetic effect of milk and finger millet used in 
combination, thus offering a novel functional food.

DOI: 10.17113/ftb.58.02.20.6308 
PMCID: PMC7416116
PMID: 32831571 

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: The authors declare no
conflict of interest.

