
1. J Biomol Struct Dyn. 2020 Mar 28:1-12. doi: 10.1080/07391102.2020.1745283. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Antimicrobial activity of ginger on cariogenic bacteria: molecular networking and
molecular docking analyses.

Babaeekhou L(1), Ghane M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Islamshahr Branch, Islamic Azad University, Islamshahr,
Iran.

Streptococcus mutans and Streptococcus sobrinus have been implicated as the
primary causative agents of dental caries in humans. This study aimed to screen
the antibacterial activity of the n-hexane, ethyl acetate, methanol, and aqueous 
extracts of Ginger against mentioned bacteria and investigate chemical
constituents of the extracts, and their activity against some drug targets in S. 
mutans. Antimicrobial tests including biofilm inhibition, time-kill kinetics, and
adherence inhibition alongside cytotoxicity of extracts, were assessed. A
molecular networking technique was used to find chemical constituents of the
extracts. Molecular docking analysis on the Schrodinger package was applied to
identify the binding interactions of the compounds to targeted enzymes. Methanol 
and ethyl acetate extracts showed the highest antibacterial activity against S.
mutans and S. sobrinus. Different compounds including polyphenols, alkaloids,
anthraquinones, flavonoids, terpenoids, glycosides, steroids, and reducing sugars
dereplicated from Ginger extracts. The binding affinity of ligands with free
hydroxyl groups was better than other ligands against all tested enzymes. This
study introduces a wide range of Z. officinal extracts compounds to be used in
different drug discovery studies. Some Ginger compounds with high affinity to
investigated enzymes can be considered as candidate compounds for anti-caries
drug development studies.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2020.1745283 
PMID: 32189576 

