
1. J Fish Dis. 2020 Sep 14. doi: 10.1111/jfd.13247. [Epub ahead of print]

Isolation and molecular characterization of streptococcal species recovered from 
clinical infections in farmed Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) in the
Philippines.

Legario FS(1)(2), Choresca CH Jr(3), Turnbull JF(1), Crumlish M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Aquaculture, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling,
Stirling, UK.
(2)Natural Sciences Department, Iloilo Science and Technology University, Iloilo 
City, Philippines.
(3)National Fisheries Research and Development Institute-Fisheries Biotechnology 
Centre, Science City of Munoz, Philippines.

Streptococcosis cause severe losses for global tilapia farming, especially in
developing countries. The aim of this study was to identify and characterize
streptococci recovered from Nile tilapia farmed in the Philippines. Moribund and 
apparently healthy fish were sampled from grow-out cages, ponds and hatcheries.
Clinical signs observed included exophthalmia, eye opacity, ascites, lethargy,
erratic swimming and haemorrhages. Results showed that both Streptococcus iniae
and Streptococcus agalactiae were associated with disease in these sites.
Consistent with global reports, including those from South-East Asia, S.
agalactiae was more widespread than S. iniae. Molecular serotyping of the S.
agalactiae isolates identified the serotype Ia and serotype Ib. Histopathological
findings were meningitis, meningoencephalitis and septicaemia. Identical
virulence profiles were found for all strains of S. iniae, while S. agalactiae
strains were separated into virulence profile I and profile II. All strains were 
susceptible to the tested antibiotics and resistant to oxolinic acid. Only S.
agalactiae serotype Ib showed resistance to sulphamethoxazole-trimethoprim. This 
is the first study from the Philippines to characterize the streptococci involved
in disease outbreaks in tilapia aquaculture. Outputs from this study will promote
the development of efficacious disease control strategies in tilapia farming for 
the Philippines and South-East Asia.

Â© 2020 The Authors. Journal of Fish Diseases published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jfd.13247 
PMID: 32929781 

