
1. Jpn J Infect Dis. 2020 Aug 31. doi: 10.7883/yoken.JJID.2020.382. [Epub ahead of
print]

The Intracellular Invasion Ability and the Associated Microbiological
Characteristics of Streptococcus canis in Isolates from Japan.

Yoshida H(1), Goto M(1), Fukushima Y(1), Maeda T(1), Tsuyuki Y(1)(2), Takahashi
T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Infectious Diseases, Graduate School of Infection Control
Sciences & ÅŒmura Satoshi Memorial Institute, Kitasato University, Japan.
(2)Division of Clinical Laboratory, Sanritsu Zelkova Veterinary Laboratory,
Japan.

This study evaluated cell invasion ability (CIA) of Streptococcus canis isolates 
and clarified the relationship between high-frequency CIA and microbiological
features. Of the companion animal-origin isolates (n = 117) in 2017, 40 isolates 
were randomly selected with the host information, and two human blood-origin
isolates were included. We measured the CIA using human colon carcinoma
epithelium and the hemolytic activity (HA) using sheep blood, along with S. canis
M-like protein (SCM) allele typing, sequence type (ST) determination, and
antimicrobial resistance (AMR) phenotyping/genotyping. CIA measurements revealed 
that 19 isolates were high-frequency and 24 isolates were low-frequency. The HA
assessment revealed that 24 isolates were categorized as high-level and 19
isolates were low-level. There was no difference in the high/low-level HA between
the high-frequency/low-frequency CIA populations. There was a significant
difference in the high/low-frequency CIA between SCM group I/II populations.
There was also significantly higher CIA in the SCM allele type 10/type 11 than in
others. We found a significant association between high-frequency CIA and
ST21/ST41 populations. There was no difference in the high/low-frequency CIA
between the presence and absence of AMR phenotype/genotype. Our observations
suggest a relationship between high-frequency CIA and its microbiological
characteristics (SCM allele type 10/type 11 or ST21/ST41).

DOI: 10.7883/yoken.JJID.2020.382 
PMID: 32863352 

