
1. Food Res Int. 2020 Apr;130:108931. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2019.108931. Epub 2019 
Dec 26.

Genomic and phenotypic assessments of safety and probiotic properties of
Streptococcus macedonicus strains of dairy origin.

Tarrah A(1), da Silva Duarte V(1), Pakroo S(1), Corich V(2), Giacomini A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agronomy Food Natural resources Animal and Environment (DAFNAE),
University of Padova, viale dell'Università 16, 35020 Legnaro, PD, Italy.
(2)Department of Agronomy Food Natural resources Animal and Environment (DAFNAE),
University of Padova, viale dell'Università 16, 35020 Legnaro, PD, Italy.
Electronic address: viviana.corich@unipd.it.

In this work, we studied the genomes and characterized some probiotic features of
four S. macedonicus strains isolated from dairy environments in Italy that
already had indicated some technological potential. The genomes of these strains 
were sequenced and used for genomic in silico studies. All strains were also
evaluated for hemolytic activity, susceptibility to most commonly used
antibiotics and probiotic potential, such as resistance to simulated
gastrointestinal conditions, bile salts hydrolytic activity and adhesion ability 
to HT-29 human colorectal adenocarcinoma cells. Results revealed that one strain,
namely S. macedonicus 211MA, was found to possess probiotic properties, such as
resistance to simulated gastrointestinal conditions as well as adherence
capability to human epithelial cells. In silico analyses revealed that S.
macedonicus 211MA displayed the least number of single copy genes, genomic
islands regions and gene content classified as virulence factors when compared to
other S. macedonicus and S. gallolyticus strains. Moreover, the maximum gene
content associated with bacterial stress response category and the presence of
the opuCABCD operon, not detected in the other strains, were correlated with S.
macedonicus 211MA capability to resist to low pH and to show higher adhesion to
HT-29 human cells. This is the first report on the presence of opuCABCD operon in
S. macedonicus and its possible relation with attachment ability and stress
response.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2019.108931 
PMID: 32156379 

