
1. J Nat Prod. 2020 Jul 24;83(7):2087-2092. doi: 10.1021/acs.jnatprod.9b01045. Epub 
2020 Jul 9.

Garcinoic Acids and a Benzophenone Derivative from the Seeds of Garcinia kola and
Their Antibacterial Activities against Oral Bacterial Pathogenic Organisms.

Hioki Y(1), Onwona-Agyeman S(2), Kakumu Y(1), Hattori H(3), Yamauchi K(1),
Mitsunaga T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Natural Science and Technology, Gifu University, Gifu
501-1193, Japan.
(2)Institute of Agriculture, Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology,
Fuchu, Tokyo 183-8509, Japan.
(3)Asian Satellite Campuses Institute, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku,
Nagoya 464-8601, Japan.

In this study, three new garcinoic acid dimers, δ,δ-bigarcinoic acid (1),
δ,δ-bi-O-garcinoic acid (2), and γ,δ-bi-O-garcinoic acid (3), and a new
benzophenone derivative, (8E)-4-geranyl-3,5-dihydroxybenzophenone (4), as well as
seven known compounds (5-11) were isolated from the seeds of Garcinia kola. The
structures of the new compounds were elucidated using MALDI-TOF-MS and
spectroscopic data, including 1D and 2D NMR and electronic circular dichroism
spectra. All of the isolated compounds were evaluated for their antimicrobial
activity against two oral pathogens, Porphyromonas gingivalis and Streptococcus
sobrinus. Among them, 4 and δ-garcinoic acid (6) exhibited antimicrobial activity
against both of these microorganisms (MICs of 31.3-62.5 μM for P. gingivalis and 
15.6-31.3 μM for S. sobrinus). These results indicate that some chemical
constituents in G. kola seeds have potential application in the prevention of
oral diseases.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jnatprod.9b01045 
PMID: 32644811 

