
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Aug 24;9(9). pii: E533. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9090533.

Antimicrobial Effect of Natural Berry Juices on Common Oral Pathogenic Bacteria.

Kranz S(1), Guellmar A(1), Olschowsky P(1), Tonndorf-Martini S(1), Heyder M(1),
Pfister W(2), Reise M(1), Sigusch B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Conservative Dentistry and Periodontology, Jena University
Hospital, Friedrich-Schiller-University, An der Alten Post 4, 07743 Jena,
Germany.
(2)Institute for Medical Microbiology, University Hospital Jena, Erlanger Allee
101, 07747 Jena, Germany.

(1) Background: Antimicrobial agents such as chlorhexidine (CHX) are commonly
used in oral plaque control. However, sometimes those agents lack antimicrobial
efficiency or cause undesired side effects. To identify alternative
anti-infective agents, the present study investigated the antibacterial activity 
of all-fruit juices derived from blackcurrant, redcurrant, cranberry and
raspberry on common oral pathogenic gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria
(Streptococcus mutans, Streptococcus gordonii, Streptococcus sobrinus,
Actinomyces naeslundii, Fusobacterium nucleatum, Aggregatibacter
actinomycetemcomitans, Porphyromonas gingivalis, Enterococcus faecalis). (2)
Methods: Antibacterial efficiency was evaluated by agar diffusion assay and in
direct contact with bacteria in planktonic culture. Furthermore, cytotoxicity on 
human gingival fibroblasts was determined. (3) Results: Blackcurrant juice was
most efficient at suppressing bacteria; followed by the activity of redcurrant
and cranberry juice. Raspberry juice only suppressed P. gingivalis significantly.
Only high-concentrated blackcurrant juice showed minimal cytotoxic effects which 
were significantly less compared to the action of CHX. (4) Conclusion: Extracts
from natural berry juices might be used for safe and efficient suppression of
oral pathogenic bacterial species.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9090533 
PMID: 32847029 

