
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Sep 18;8(9). pii: E1432. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091432.

Oral Pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis Can Escape Phagocytosis of Mammalian
Macrophages.

Werheim ER(1)(2), Senior KG(1)(3), Shaffer CA(1), Cuadra GA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Muhlenberg College, 2400 W. Chew Street, Allentown, PA 
18104, USA.
(2)Lewis Katz School of Medicine, Temple University, 3500 North Broad Street,
Philadelphia, PA 19140, USA.
(3)Graduate Program in Biomedical Sciences, College of Medicine, University of
Florida, P.O. Box 100215, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA.

Macrophages are phagocytic cells that play a key role in host immune response and
clearance of microbial pathogens. Porphyromonas gingivalis is an oral pathogen
associated with the development of periodontitis. Escape from macrophage
phagocytosis was tested by infecting THP-1-derived human macrophages and RAW
264.7 mouse macrophages with strains of P. gingivalis W83 and 33277 as well as
Streptococcus gordonii DL1 and Escherichia coli OP50 at MOI = 100. CFU counts for
all intracellular bacteria were determined. Then, infected macrophages were
cultured in media without antibiotics to allow for escape and escaping bacteria
were quantified by CFU counting. P. gingivalis W83 displayed over 60% of the
bacterial escape from the total amount of intracellular CFUs, significantly
higher compared to all other bacteria strains. In addition, bacterial escape and 
re-entry were also tested and P. gingivalis W83, once again, showed the highest
numbers of CFUs able to exit and re-enter macrophages. Lastly, the function of
the PG0717 gene of P. gingivalis W83 was tested on escape but found not related
to this activity. Altogether, our results suggest that P. gingivalis W83 is able 
to significantly avoid macrophage phagocytosis. We propose this ability is likely
linked to the chronic nature of periodontitis.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091432 
PMID: 32961960 

