
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Sep 19;9(9). pii: E621. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9090621.

Characterization of the Bacteriophage-Derived Endolysins PlySs2 and PlySs9 with
In Vitro Lytic Activity against Bovine Mastitis Streptococcus uberis.

Vander Elst N(1)(2)(3)(4), Linden SB(2), Lavigne R(3), Meyer E(1), Briers Y(4),
Nelson DC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry, Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and
Biochemistry, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University, 9820 Merelbeke,
Belgium.
(2)Laboratory of Antimicrobial Discovery, Institute for Bioscience and
Biotechnology Research, University of Maryland, Rockville, MD 20850, USA.
(3)Laboratory of Gene Technology, Department of Biosystems, KU Leuven, 3001
Heverlee, Belgium.
(4)Laboratory of Applied Biotechnology, Department of Biotechnology, Ghent
University, 9000 Ghent, Belgium.

Bovine mastitis, an infection of the cow's mammary gland, is frequently caused by
Streptococcus uberis and causes major economic losses in the dairy industry. The 
intramammary administration of antibiotics currently remains the predominant
preventive and therapeutic measure. These antimicrobial compounds, of which some 
are considered critical in human health care, are frequently applied as dry
therapy resulting in their consistent overuse. Therefore, the use of antibiotics 
in the dairy sector is being questioned. We here identified two endolysins, i.e.,
PlySs2 and PlySs9, respectively derived from Streptococcus suis serotype-2 and -9
prophages, with lytic activity against S. uberis in an in vitro setting. Both
endolysins gave clear lysis zones in spot-on-plate assays and caused a reduction 
of the optical density in a turbidity reduction assay. In depth characterization 
identified PlySs9 as the more potent endolysin over PlySs2 with a lower MIC value
and about one additional log of killing. PlySs2 and PlySs9 were challenged to a
panel of subclinical and clinical S. uberis milk isolates and were both able to
lyse all strains tested. Molecular dissection of these endolysins in catalytic
and cell wall binding subdomains resulted in major loss of killing and binding
activity, respectively. Taken together, we here propose PlySs2 and PlySs9 as
candidate compounds to the current antimicrobial arsenal known against bovine
mastitis-causing S. uberis as future add-on or replacement strategy to the
currently used intramammary antibiotics.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9090621 
PMID: 32961696 

