
1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2020 Aug 20;64(9). pii: e00251-20. doi:
10.1128/AAC.00251-20. Print 2020 Aug 20.

Antibacterial Effect of Caffeic Acid Phenethyl Ester on Cariogenic Bacteria and
Streptococcus mutans Biofilms.

Niu Y(1)(2), Wang K(1), Zheng S(1), Wang Y(1), Ren Q(1), Li H(1), Ding L(1), Li
W(1), Zhang L(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases, National Clinical Research Center for
Oral Diseases, Department of Cariology and Endodontics, West China Hospital of
Stomatology, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Shaanxi Province for Craniofacial Precision Medicine
Research, College of Stomatology, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases, National Clinical Research Center for
Oral Diseases, Department of Cariology and Endodontics, West China Hospital of
Stomatology, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China zhll_sc@163.com.

Dental caries is the most common disease in the human mouth. Streptococcus mutans
is the primary cariogenic bacterium. Propolis is a nontoxic natural product with 
a strong inhibitory effect on oral cariogenic bacteria. The polyphenol-rich
extract from propolis inhibits S. mutans growth and biofilm formation, as well as
the genes involved in virulence and adherence, through the inhibition of
glucosyltransferases (GTF). However, because the chemical composition of propolis
is highly variable and complex, the mechanism of its antimicrobial action and the
active compound are controversial and not completely understood. Caffeic acid
phenethyl ester (CAPE) is abundant in the polyphenolic compounds from propolis,
and it has many pharmacological effects. In this study, we investigated the
antibacterial effects of CAPE on common oral cariogenic bacteria (Streptococcus
mutans, Streptococcus sobrinus, Actinomyces viscosus, and Lactobacillus
acidophilus) and its effects on the biofilm-forming and cariogenic abilities of
S. mutans CAPE shows remarkable antimicrobial activity against cariogenic
bacteria. Moreover, CAPE also inhibits the formation of S. mutans biofilms and
their metabolic activity in mature biofilms. Furthermore, CAPE can inhibit the
key virulence factors of S. mutans associated with cariogenicity, including acid 
production, acid tolerance, and the bacterium's ability to produce extracellular 
polysaccharides (EPS), without affecting bacterial viability at subinhibitory
levels. In conclusion, CAPE appears to be a new agent with anticariogenic
potential, not only via inhibition of the growth of cariogenic bacteria.

Copyright Â© 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00251-20 
PMCID: PMC7449213 [Available on 2021-02-20]
PMID: 32540977 

