
1. mSphere. 2020 Mar 18;5(2). pii: e00157-20. doi: 10.1128/mSphere.00157-20.

Multiple Bactericidal Mechanisms of the Zinc Ionophore PBT2.

Harbison-Price N(1), Ferguson SA(1), Heikal A(1), Taiaroa G(1), Hards K(1),
Nakatani Y(1), Rennison D(2), Brimble MA(2), El-Deeb IM(3), Bohlmann L(4),
McDevitt CA(5), von Itzstein M(3), Walker MJ(4), Cook GM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Otago, Dunedin, New
Zealand.
(2)School of Chemical Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(3)Institute for Glycomics, Griffith University, Queensland, Australia.
(4)School of Chemistry and Molecular Biosciences, Australian Infectious Diseases 
Research Centre, The University of Queensland, Queensland, Australia.
(5)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, The Peter Doherty Institute for
Infection and Immunity, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Otago, Dunedin, New
Zealand gregory.cook@otago.ac.nz.

Globally, more antimicrobials are used in food-producing animals than in humans, 
and the extensive use of medically important human antimicrobials poses a
significant public health threat in the face of rising antimicrobial resistance
(AMR). The development of novel ionophores, a class of antimicrobials used
exclusively in animals, holds promise as a strategy to replace or reduce
essential human antimicrobials in veterinary practice. PBT2 is a zinc ionophore
with recently demonstrated antibacterial activity against several Gram-positive
pathogens, although the underlying mechanism of action is unknown. Here, we
investigated the bactericidal mechanism of PBT2 in the bovine mastitis-causing
pathogen, Streptococcus uberis In this work, we show that PBT2 functions as a
Zn2+/H+ ionophore, exchanging extracellular zinc for intracellular protons in an 
electroneutral process that leads to cellular zinc accumulation. Zinc
accumulation occurs concomitantly with manganese depletion and the production of 
reactive oxygen species (ROS). PBT2 inhibits the activity of the
manganese-dependent superoxide dismutase, SodA, thereby impairing oxidative
stress protection. We propose that PBT2-mediated intracellular zinc toxicity in
S. uberis leads to lethality through multiple bactericidal mechanisms: the
production of toxic ROS and the impairment of manganese-dependent antioxidant
functions. Collectively, these data show that PBT2 represents a new class of
antibacterial ionophores capable of targeting bacterial metal ion homeostasis and
cellular redox balance. We propose that this novel and multitarget mechanism of
PBT2 makes the development of cross-resistance to medically important
antimicrobials unlikely.IMPORTANCE More antimicrobials are used in food-producing
animals than in humans, and the extensive use of medically important human
antimicrobials poses a significant public health threat in the face of rising
antimicrobial resistance. Therefore, the elimination of antimicrobial crossover
between human and veterinary medicine is of great interest. Unfortunately, the
development of new antimicrobials is an expensive high-risk process fraught with 
difficulties. The repurposing of chemical agents provides a solution to this
problem, and while many have not been originally developed as antimicrobials,
they have been proven safe in clinical trials. PBT2, a zinc ionophore, is an
experimental therapeutic that met safety criteria but failed efficacy checkpoints
against both Alzheimer's and Huntington's diseases. It was recently found that
PBT2 possessed potent antimicrobial activity, although the mechanism of bacterial
cell death is unresolved. In this body of work, we show that PBT2 has multiple
mechanisms of antimicrobial action, making the development of PBT2 resistance
unlikely.

Copyright Â© 2020 Harbison-Price et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSphere.00157-20 
PMCID: PMC7082140
PMID: 32188750 

