
1. Biofouling. 2020 Sep 29:1-8. doi: 10.1080/08927014.2020.1825694. [Epub ahead of
print]

Antimicrobial effects of a pulsed electromagnetic field: an in vitro
polymicrobial periodontal subgingival biofilm model.

Faveri M(1), Miquelleto DEC(1), Bueno-Silva B(1), Pingueiro JMS(1), Figueiredo
LC(1), Dolkart O(2), Yakobson E(3), Barak S(3), Feres M(1), Shibli JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontology, Dental Research Division, Guarulhos University, 
Guarulhos, Brazil.
(2)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Division of Orthopedic Surgery, Tel Aviv Sourasky
Medical Center, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(3)Magdent Ltd, Bnei-Brak, Israel.

The objective was to test the influence of a pulsed electromagnetic field (PEMF) 
on bacterial biofilm colonization around implants incorporated with healing
abutments. Healing abutments with (test group) and without (control group) active
PEMF devices were placed in a multispecies biofilm consisting of 31 different
bacterial species. The biofilm composition and total bacterial counts (x105) were
analyzed by checkerboard DNA-DNA hybridization. After 96 h, the mean level of 7
out of the 31 bacterial species differed significantly between groups, namely
Eubacterium nodatum, Fusobacterium nucleatum ssp. nucleatum, Streptococcus
intermedius, Streptococcus anginosus, Streptococcus mutans, Fusobacterium
nucleatum ssp. Vicentii and Capnocytophaga ochracea were elevated in the control 
group (p < 0.05). The mean total bacterial counts were lower in the Test group vs
the control group (p < 0.05). An electromagnetic healing cap had antimicrobial
effects on the bacterial species and can be used to control bacterial
colonization around dental implants. Further clinical studies should be conducted
to confirm these findings.

DOI: 10.1080/08927014.2020.1825694 
PMID: 32993357 

