
1. J Bone Jt Infect. 2020 Jan 1;5(1):1-6. doi: 10.7150/jbji.36923. eCollection 2020.

Streptococcus bovis Hip and Knee Periprosthetic Joint Infections: A Series of 9
Cases.

Thompson JC(1), Goldman AH(1), Tande AJ(2), Osmon DR(1)(2), Sierra RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, MN.

Introduction: Prosthetic joint infection (PJI) due to Streptococcus bovis group
(SBG), specifically S. bovis biotype I (S. gallolyticus), is rare and associated 
with colorectal carcinoma. Little has been published regarding SBG PJI. We
analyzed nine cases of SBG PJI at our institution, the largest series to date.
Methods: The medical records of patients diagnosed with SBG PJI between 2000-2017
were reviewed. Patients were followed until death, failure, or loss to follow-up.
Mean follow-up was 37 months (range 0.5-74 months). Results: Nine PJI in 8
patients with mean prosthesis age at diagnosis of 8 years (range 4 weeks-17
years) were identified. The median duration between symptom onset and treatment
was 38 weeks (range 0.3 weeks-175 weeks). 8/9 had their PJI eradicated with
treatment based on acuity of symptoms. Acute PJI (2) was treated with DAIR, and
chronic PJI (7) was treated with 2-stage revision arthroplasty. 1 PJI with
chronic PJI developed recurrent infection after initial treatment. All patients
received post-operative IV antibiotics. 7/8 patients received Ceftriaxone. Three 
patients received lifelong oral antibiotics. 7/8 patients underwent colonoscopy. 
5/7 patients were found to have polyps following PJI diagnosis with one carcinoma
and two dysplastic polyps. The two patients without polyps had identifiable
gastrointestinal (GI) mucosal abnormality: tooth extraction prior to symptom
onset and diverticulosis on chronic anticoagulation. Conclusion: SBG PJI is
typically due to hematologic seeding. Colonoscopy should be pursued for patients 
with SBG PJI. Surgical treatment dictated by infection acuity and 6-week course
of Ceftriaxone seems sufficient to control infection.

Â© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/jbji.36923 
PMCID: PMC7045526
PMID: 32117683 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared
that no competing interest exists.

