
1. Materials (Basel). 2020 Sep 26;13(19). pii: E4299. doi: 10.3390/ma13194299.

The In Vivo Toxicity and Antimicrobial Properties for Electrolyzed Oxidizing (EO)
Water-Based Mouthwashes.

Hsieh YL(1), Yao JC(1), Hsieh SC(2), Teng NC(2), Chu YT(1), Yu WX(1), Chen CH(1),
Chang LY(1), Huang CS(2), Lee TH(1), Kareiva A(3), Yang JC(1)(4)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Institute of Nanomedicine and Medical Engineering, College of
Biomedical Engineering, Taipei Medical University, Taipei 110-52, Taiwan.
(2)School of Dentistry, Taipei Medical University, Taipei 110-52, Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Chemistry, Vilnius University, Naugarduko 24, LT-03225 Vilnius,
Lithuania.
(4)Research Center of Biomedical Device, Taipei Medical University, Taipei
110-52, Taiwan.
(5)International Ph.D. Program in Biomedical Engineering, College of Biomedical
Engineering, Taipei Medical University, Taipei 110-52, Taiwan.
(6)Research Center of Digital Oral Science and Technology, Taipei Medical
University, Taipei 110-52, Taiwan.

The objective of this study was to verify the feasibility of electrolyzed
oxidizing (EO) water as a mouthwash through the evaluation of its in vivo
toxicity by embryonic zebrafish and antimicrobial efficacy against Streptococcus 
mutans (S. mutans).METHODOLOGY: Each 1.5-3.0 g of sodium chloride (NaCl), sodium 
bromide (NaBr), or calcium chloride (CaCl2) were added into an electrolyzer with 
300 mL of DD water to produce electrolyzed oxidizing (EO) water. A zebrafish
embryo assay was used to evaluate acute toxicity of specimens. Antimicrobial
property was conducted with 100 μL microbial count of 1 × 108 cfu/mL S. mutans to
blend with each 10 mL specimen of chlorhexidine (CHX) gluconate or hypochlorous
acid (HOCl) for various time points. The concentration of viable microorganisms
was assessed according to individually standardized inoculum by a plate-count
method.
RESULTS: Among the EO water produced from NaCl, NaBr, and CaCl2, the EO water
from NaCl showed a relatively low mortality rate of zebrafish embryos and was
chosen for a detailed investigation. The mortality rates for the groups treated
with EO water containing 0.0125% and 0.0250% HOCl were not statically different
from those of a negative control, however the mortality rate was 66.7 ± 26.2% in 
0.2% CHX gluconate for the same treatment time of 0.5 min. All of the HOCl or
2.0% CHX gluconate groups showed >99.9% antimicrobial effectiveness against S.
mutans; while the 0.2% CHX gluconate group showed a bacterial reduction rate of
87.5% and 97.1% for treatment times of 0.5 min and 1.0 min, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Except for the 0.2% CHX gluconate, all the HOCl specimens and 2.0%
CHX gluconate revealed similar antimicrobial properties (>99.9%) against S.
mutans. The EO water comprised of both 0.0125% and 0.0250% HOCl showed >99.9%
antimicrobial efficacy but with little in vivo toxicity, illuminating the
possibility as an alternative mouthwash for dental and oral care.

DOI: 10.3390/ma13194299 
PMID: 32993124 

