
1. Asian-Australas J Anim Sci. 2020 May 12. doi: 10.5713/ajas.20.0156. [Epub ahead
of print]

Bovine mastitis: risk factors, therapeutic strategies, and alternative treatments
- A review.

Cheng WN(1), Han SG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Biotechnology of Animal Resources, Konkuk
University, Seoul 05029, Korea.

Bovine mastitis, an inflammation of the mammary gland of dairy cattle, is the
most common disease causing economic losses due to reduced yield and poor quality
of milk in dairy industry. The etiological agents include a variety of
gram-positive and gramnegative bacteria, and can be either contagious (e.g.,
Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus agalactiae, Mycoplasma spp.) or
environmental (e.g., Escherichia coli, Enterococcus spp., coagulase-negative
Staphylococcus, Streptococcus uberis). Host factors such as improvement of
milking hygiene, implementation of post-milking teat disinfection, maintenance of
milking machine are general measures to prevent new cases of mastitis, but
treatment of active mastitis infection is dependant mainly on antibiotics.
However, the extensive use of antibiotics increased concerns about emergence of
antibiotic-resistant pathogens and that led the dairy industries to reduce the
use of antibiotics. Therefore, alternative therapies for prevention and treatment
of bovine mastitis, particularly natural products from plants and animals, have
been sought. This review provides an overview of bovine mastitis in the aspects
of risk factors, control and treatments, and emerging therapeutic alternatives in
the control of bovine mastitis.

DOI: 10.5713/ajas.20.0156 
PMID: 32777908 

