
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Aug 20;8(9). pii: E1269. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091269.

Cyclic Di-adenosine Monophosphate Regulates Metabolism and Growth in the Oral
Commensal Streptococcus mitis.

Rørvik GH(1), Liskiewicz KA(1), Kryuchkov F(2), Naemi AO(1), Aasheim HC(1),
Petersen FC(1), Küntziger TM(1), Simm R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Oral Biology, University of Oslo, 0316 Oslo, Norway.
(2)Norwegian Veterinary Institute, Pb 750 Sentrum, 0106 Oslo, Norway.

Cyclic di-adenosine monophosphate (c-di-AMP) has emerged as an important
bacterial signaling molecule that functions both as an intracellular second
messenger in bacterial cells and an extracellular ligand involved in
bacteria-host cross-talk. In this study, we identify and characterize proteins
involved in controlling the c-di-AMP concentration in the oral commensal and
opportunistic pathogen Streptococcusmitis (S. mitis). We identified three known
types of c-di-AMP turnover proteins in the genome of S. mitis CCUG31611: a
CdaA-type diadenylate cyclase as well as GdpP-, and DhhP-type phosphodiesterases.
Biochemical analyses of purified proteins demonstrated that CdaA synthesizes
c-di-AMP from ATP whereas both phosphodiesterases can utilize c-di-AMP as well as
the intermediary metabolite of c-di-AMP hydrolysis 5'-phosphadenylyl-adenosine
(pApA) as substrate to generate AMP, albeit at different catalytic efficiency.
Using deletion mutants of each of the genes encoding c-di-AMP turnover proteins, 
we show by high resolution MS/MS that the intracellular concentration of c-di-AMP
is increased in deletion mutants of the phosphodiesterases and non-detectable in 
the cdaA-mutant. We also detected pApA in mutants of the DhhP-type
phosphodiesterase. Low and high levels of c-di-AMP were associated with longer
and shorter chains of S. mitis, respectively indicating a role in regulation of
cell division. The deletion mutant of the DhhP-type phosphodiesterase displayed
slow growth and reduced rate of glucose metabolism.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091269 
PMID: 32825526 

