
1. BMJ Case Rep. 2020 Mar 31;13(3). pii: e233971. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2019-233971.

Fulminating deep tissue space infection with Streptococcus constellatus
presenting initially as a sore throat.

Glover J(1), Kovacevic G(1), Walton G(1), Parr D(2).

Author information: 
(1)University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust, Coventry, UK.
(2)University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust, Coventry, UK
david.parr@uhcw.nhs.uk.

Management of sore throat requires robust decision-making to balance successfully
the conflicting risks of unnecessary antibiotic use against those of untreated
bacterial infection. We present a case of fulminant sepsis caused by
Streptococcus constellatus, presenting as a sore throat, initially managed
conservatively. Despite subsequent appropriate anti-microbial therapy and
surgical drainage, contiguous spread ultimately involved the deep neck spaces,
mediastinum and thoracic wall, and was complicated by severe aspiration
pneumonia, pharyngocutaneous and bronchopleural fistulation. The complexity and
widespread extent of the infected spaces, in conjunction with the catabolic
response to sepsis, created a life-threatening situation. Surgical closure of the
pharyngeal defect, using a pectoralis-major pedicle flap, was successfully
undertaken to ensure source control of the infection and heralded a complete
recovery. We describe our management of this case, discuss the current approach
to the management of patients presenting with a sore throat, and review the
literature on S. constellatus infections.

Â© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2020. No commercial re-use. See rights and
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2019-233971 
PMCID: PMC7167435 [Available on 2022-03-31]
PMID: 32234857 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.

