
1. J Dairy Sci. 2020 Sep;103(9):8378-8387. doi: 10.3168/jds.2019-17748. Epub 2020
Jun 18.

Heat load increases the risk of clinical mastitis in dairy cattle.

Vitali A(1), Felici A(2), Lees AM(3), Giacinti G(4), Maresca C(2), Bernabucci
U(5), Gaughan JB(6), Nardone A(5), Lacetera N(5).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento Scienze Agrarie e Forestali, Università della Tuscia, 01100
Viterbo, Italy. Electronic address: vitali@unitus.it.
(2)Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale dell'Umbria e delle Marche, 06126
Perugia, Italy.
(3)School of Agriculture and Food Sciences, The University of Queensland, Gatton,
QLD 4343, Australia; School of Environmental and Rural Science, Animal Science,
University of New England Australia, Armidale, NSW, Australia, 2350.
(4)Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale del Lazio e Toscana, 00178 Roma, Italy.
(5)Dipartimento Scienze Agrarie e Forestali, Università della Tuscia, 01100
Viterbo, Italy.
(6)School of Agriculture and Food Sciences, The University of Queensland, Gatton,
QLD 4343, Australia.

The study was aimed at assessing heat load-related risk of clinical mastitis (CM)
in dairy cows. Records of CM for the years 2014 and 2015 were obtained from a
large conventional dairy farm milking about 1,200 Holstein cows in central Italy.
A case of CM was defined by the presence of clinical signs and veterinary
confirmation. Quarter milk samples were collected and bacteriological
investigated for each CM. Etiological agents were identified and classified as
environmental or contagious pathogens. Hourly weather data from the nearest
weather station were used to calculate heat load index (HLI). Upper and lower
thresholds of HLI, at which the animal accumulates or dissipates heat, were
settled and used to measure heat load balance through the accumulated heat load
(AHL) model. Zero and positive values of AHL indicate periods of thermo-neutral
and heat accumulation, respectively. Each case of CM was associated with HLI-AHL 
values recorded 5 d before the event. The risk of CM was evaluated using a
case-crossover design. A conditional logistic regression model was used to
calculate the odds ratio and 95% confidence intervals of CM recorded in
thermo-neutral (AHL = 0) or heat load (AHL > 0) days, pooled or stratified for
pathogen type (environmental or contagious). Classes of AHL as low (<6.5), medium
(6.6-34.9), and high (>35) were included in the model. Other variables included
in the model were milk yield as liters (<20, 20-30, and >30), days in milk (<60, 
60-150, and >150), and parity (1, 2-3, and >3). A total of 1,086 CM cases were
identified from 677 cows. Escherichia coli, Streptococcus spp., and Streptococcus
uberis were the environmental pathogens isolated with the highest frequency;
Staphylococcus aureus prevailed within contagious species. The analysis of pooled
data indicated a significant effect of heat load on the occurrence of CM in the
contagious pathogen stratum. Higher milk yield, middle and late stage of
lactation, and older parity increased the risk of CM under heat load conditions. 
However, the association between pathogen type and these factors was not clear
because the model provided significant odds ratios within all pathogen
categories. The present study provided the first evidence of an association
between HLI and CM in dairy cattle and suggested the ability of the AHL model to 
assess the risk of mastitis associated with heat load.

Copyright © 2020 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2019-17748 
PMID: 32564950 

