
1. Toxicol Rep. 2020 Sep 1;7:1207-1215. doi: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2020.08.024.
eCollection 2020.

Toxicological and genotoxic evaluation of anacardic acid loaded-zein
nanoparticles in mice.

Araújo JTC(1), Lima LA(2), Vale EP(3), Martin-Pastor M(4), Lima RA(2), Silva
PGB(2), Sousa FFO(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program on Pharmaceutical Sciences, Federal University of Amapa.
Department of Biological & Health Sciences, Federal University of Amapa, Rodovia 
Juscelino Kubitschek, Km 2, Jd. Marco Zero, 68.903-419, Macapa, AP, Brazil.
(2)Department of Dentistry, Unichristus. Rua Joao Adolfe Gurgel, 133, Bairro
Coco, 60190-060, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil.
(3)Graduate Program on Pharmaceutical Innovation, Federal University of Amapa,
Rodovia Juscelino Kubitschek, Km 2, Jd. Marco Zero, Macapa, AP, Brazil.
(4)Unidade de Resonancia Magnética, RIAIDT, University of Santiago de Compostela,
Santiago de Compostela, Spain.

Anacardic acid extracted from cashew nut shells of Anacardium occidentale L has
demonstrated important biological activities, such as antibacterial activity
against the cariogenic specie Streptococcus mutans. Zein nanoparticles containing
anacardic acid (9.375 μg/mL) were evaluated in terms of toxicity and genotoxicity
in vivo. The subacute toxicity assay was used to evaluate the cumulative effects 
of the oral administration of nanoencapsulated anacardic acid at 2.25 and 112.5
μg/kg for 7 days in mice, simulating a mouth rinse short-term clinical course
treatment. Blank zein nanoparticles and saline solution 0.9 % were used as
negative controls. Peripheral blood samples were collected to evaluate the
genotoxicity in polychromatic erythrocytes using the micronucleus test. The
animals were anesthetized, euthanized and the target organs collected, weighed
and submitted to histopathological analysis. Liver, kidney and spleen relative
weights did not change. Nevertheless, stomach, lung and heart increased the
relative weights in the group receiving the highest dose, in which occasional
histopathological findings were also identified. Both doses maintained the
micronucleus frequency within the normal range and the animals treated with the
highest dose presented a discrete weight lost, which could explain the organs'
relative weight reductions. Blank and anacardic acid loaded zein nanoparticles
were nontoxic when administered repeatedly for 7 days, as no relevant
histopathological changes neither genotoxicity were observed. These preparations 
demonstrated limited toxicity under the conditions used in this study and could
become an antibacterial alternative for preventing/treating oral infections in
short-term treatments.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2020.08.024 
PMCID: PMC7502790
PMID: 32995295 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no declarations of interest.

