
1. Infect Drug Resist. 2020 Jul 20;13:2425-2432. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S265722.
eCollection 2020.

Is Echocardiography Mandatory for All Streptococcus gallolyticus Subsp.
pasteurianus Bacteremia?

Nasomsong W(1), Vasikasin V(1), Traipattanakul J(1), Changpradub D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine,
Phramongkutklao Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand.

Background: Streptococcus gallolyticus, formerly known as one of the
Streptococcus bovis group, is frequently associated with endocarditis. Current
guidelines recommended diagnostic work-up for endocarditis among patients with S.
gallolyticus bacteremia. However, S. gallolyticus subsp. pasteurianus, was found 
to be associated with neonatal sepsis and liver diseases and is less commonly
associated with endocarditis compared with S. gallolyticus subsp. gallolyticus.
Our study aimed to identify the risk factors for S. gallolyticus subsp.
pasteurianus endocarditis to help select the patients for echocardiography.
Methods: In this retrospective cohort study, medical records from all adult
patients with S. gallolyticus subsp. pasteurianus isolated from blood cultures at
Phramongkutklao Hospital from 2009 to 2015 were reviewed. Patients who had mixed 
bacteremia or missing records were excluded from the study.
Results: During the study period, S. gallolyticus subsp. pasteurianus was
isolated among 106 individuals. Mean age was 66.9±15.6 years. Most patients
(61.3%) were male, with cirrhosis as the most common underlying diseases (46.2%),
followed by malignancy and chronic kidney disease. Most common manifestations
included primary bacteremia (44.3%), followed by spontaneous bacterial
peritonitis (23.6%). Infective endocarditis was found among 9 patients. No
patients with cirrhosis or single blood specimen of bacteremia had endocarditis
(RR 0; p-value 0.003, and RR 1.35; p-value 0.079). The common complications
associated with endocarditis were acute respiratory failure (RR 4.32; p-value
0.05), whereas acute kidney injury was a protective factor (RR 0; p-value 0.01). 
Among 76 patients who had records of 2-year follow-up, no new diagnosis of
endocarditis or malignancy was observed.
Conclusion: Among patients with S. gallolyticus subsp. pasteurianus bacteremia,
echocardiography might not be needed among patients with cirrhosis and without
sustained bacteremia.

© 2020 Nasomsong et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S265722 
PMCID: PMC7381823
PMID: 32765016 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no potential conflict of
interest relevant to this article.

