
1. Animals (Basel). 2020 Jun 1;10(6). pii: E963. doi: 10.3390/ani10060963.

Characterization of Endolysin LyJH307 with Antimicrobial Activity Against
Streptococcus Bovis.

Kim H(1), Lee HG(1), Kwon I(2), Seo J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Science, Life and Industry Convergence Research
Institute, Pusan National University, Miryang 50463, Korea.
(2)EASY BIO, Inc., Seoul 06253, Korea.

Streptococcus bovis (S. bovis) is one of the critical initiators of acute
acidosis in ruminants. Therefore, we aimed to develop and characterize the
endolysin LyJH307, which can lyse ruminal S. bovis. We tested the bactericidal
activity of recombinant LyJH307 against S. bovis JB1 under a range of pH,
temperature, NaCl, and metal ion concentrations. In silico analyses showed that
LyJH307 has a modular design with a distinct, enzymatically active domain of the 
NLPC/P60 superfamily at the N-terminal and a cell wall binding domain of the
Zoocin A target recognition domain (Zoocin A_TRD) superfamily at the C-terminal. 
The lytic activity of LyJH307 against S. bovis JB1 was the highest at pH 5.5, and
relatively higher under acidic, than under alkaline conditions. LyJH307 activity 
was also the highest at 39 °C, but was maintained between 25°C and 55°C. LyJH307 
bactericidal action was retained under 0-500 mM NaCl. While the activity of
LyJH307 significantly decreased on treatment with ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid
(EDTA), it was only restored with supplementation of 10 mM Ca2+. Analyses of
antimicrobial spectra showed that LyJH307 lysed Lancefield groups D (S. bovis
group and Enterococcus faecalis) and H (S. sanguinis) bacteria. Thus, LyJH307
might help to prevent acute ruminal acidosis.

DOI: 10.3390/ani10060963 
PMCID: PMC7341270
PMID: 32492966 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders did not play any roles in this study or in the preparation of the
manuscript.

