
1. Comp Immunol Microbiol Infect Dis. 2020 Oct;72:101498. doi:
10.1016/j.cimid.2020.101498. Epub 2020 May 30.

Serum amyloid A as an marker of cow֨ s mastitis caused by Streptococcus sp.

Bochniarz M(1), Szczubiał M(2), Brodzki P(2), Krakowski L(2), Dąbrowski R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department and Clinic of Animal Reproduction, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Life Sciences, Gleboka 30, 20-612, Lublin, Poland. Electronic
address: mariolabochniarz@interia.pl.
(2)Department and Clinic of Animal Reproduction, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Life Sciences, Gleboka 30, 20-612, Lublin, Poland.

The aim of the study was to evaluate the concentrations of amyloid A in serum
(SAA) and in milk (MAA) of cows with mastitis caused by Streptococcus agalactiae,
Streptococcus dysgalactiae and Streptococcus uberis and healthy cows. The blood
and milk samples were obtained from Holstein-Friesian cows with clinical signs of
mastitis from two tie-stall housing systems herds in the Lublin region in Poland.
A total of 80 milk and serum samples from 30 cows with mastitis and 10 healthy
cows were selected for study. In the quarter milk samples from cows with mastitis
Streptococcus strains were isolated: Strep. agalactiae (7 cows), Strep.
dysgalactiae (9 cows) and Strep. uberis (14 cows). The present study indicates
that amyloid A concentration was significantly higher in milk of cows with
mastitis compared to control cows (1134.25 ng/mL and 324.50 ng/mL, P < 0.001).
The highest concentration of amyloid A was found in milk of cows with mastitis
caused by Strep. agalactiae and Strep. uberis whereas lowest in the milk of cows 
with mastitis caused by Strep. dysgalactiae (3882.50 ng/mL, 2587.75 ng/mL and
812.00 ng/mL, respectively). No statistically significant difference in amyloid A
concentration in serum was revealed between all unhealthy cows and control group 
(2140.00 ng/mL and 2510.00 ng/mL, P > 0.05). There was also no statistically
significant difference between the level of amyloid A in serum and in milk of
cows with mastitis caused by Strep. agalactiae and Strep. uberis. Whereas, in the
case of Strep. dysgalactiae, like in the group of healthy cows, the level of
amyloid A was significantly higher in serum compared to this in milk (2100 ng/mL 
and 812.00 ng/mL, P < 0.001; 2510.00 ng/mL and 324.50 ng/mL, P < 0.001;
respectively).

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cimid.2020.101498 
PMID: 32505957 

