
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Mar 13;10(1):4714. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-61458-5.

Streptococcus gallolyticus abrogates anti-carcinogenic properties of tannic acid 
on low-passage colorectal carcinomas.

Oehmcke-Hecht S(1), Mandl V(2)(3), Naatz LT(2)(3), Dühring L(2)(3), Köhler J(2), 
Kreikemeyer B(2), Maletzki C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Microbiology, Virology and Hygiene, Rostock University
Medical Center, Rostock, Germany. sonja.oehmcke-hecht@med.uni-rostock.de.
(2)Institute of Medical Microbiology, Virology and Hygiene, Rostock University
Medical Center, Rostock, Germany.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Medical Clinic III - Hematology, Oncology,
Palliative Care, Rostock University Medical Center, Rostock, Germany.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Medical Clinic III - Hematology, Oncology,
Palliative Care, Rostock University Medical Center, Rostock, Germany.
claudia.maletzki@med.uni-rostock.de.

The tannase-producing Gram-positive bacterial species Streptococcus gallolyticus 
subsp. gallolyticus (Sgg) is an opportunistic pathogen of the human gut and
strongly associated with colorectal cancer (CRC). A unique feature of Sgg is its 
ability to degrade tannic acids (TA). TA constitute an important part of the
human diet with known anti-tumorigenic properties. Here, we examined whether Sgg 
is able to protect tumor cells from the toxic effect of TA and thus drive
tumorigenesis indirectly. Human CRC cell lines (n = 8) were treated with
increasing concentrations of TA. We confirmed the cytotoxic activity of TA in a
dose-dependent manner. In virtually all cell lines, viability decreased
significantly (>60% inhibition). Moreover, pyrogallol, the degradation product of
TA, had no effect on the tested cell lines. This suggests a specific effect of
TA. Cytotoxicity was due to necrosis and induction of senescence in residual
cells. Finally, when TA was degraded by Sgg, the cytotoxic effect could be
abolished. Tumor cells even responded with boosted cell proliferation,
highlighting the impact of Sgg on CRC progression. We here provide another piece 
of evidence for the active interplay between Sgg and cancer preventive
components. These data will help to move forward in designing concepts for
therapeutic and eventually also prophylactic approaches to combat
gastrointestinal malignancies.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-61458-5 
PMCID: PMC7070001
PMID: 32170212 

