
1. Vaccines (Basel). 2020 Sep 24;8(4). pii: E559. doi: 10.3390/vaccines8040559.

Possible Cross-Reactivity between SARS-CoV-2 Proteins, CRM197 and Proteins in
Pneumococcal Vaccines May Protect Against Symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 Disease and
Death.

Root-Bernstein R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI 48824,
USA.

Various studies indicate that vaccination, especially with pneumococcal vaccines,
protects against symptomatic cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection and death. This paper 
explores the possibility that pneumococcal vaccines in particular, but perhaps
other vaccines as well, contain antigens that might be cross-reactive with
SARS-CoV-2 antigens. Comparison of the glycosylation structures of SARS-CoV-2
with the polysaccharide structures of pneumococcal vaccines yielded no obvious
similarities. However, while pneumococcal vaccines are primarily composed of
capsular polysaccharides, some are conjugated to cross-reacting material CRM197, 
a modified diphtheria toxin, and all contain about three percent protein
contaminants, including the pneumococcal surface proteins PsaA, PspA and probably
PspC. All of these proteins have very high degrees of similarity, using very
stringent criteria, with several SARS-CoV-2 proteins including the spike protein,
membrane protein and replicase 1a. CRM197 is also present in Haemophilus
influenzae type b (Hib) and meningitis vaccines. Equivalent similarities were
found at lower rates, or were completely absent, among the proteins in
diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, measles, mumps, rubella, and poliovirus vaccines.
Notably, PspA and PspC are highly antigenic and new pneumococcal vaccines based
on them are currently in human clinical trials so that their effectiveness
against SARS-CoV-2 disease is easily testable.

DOI: 10.3390/vaccines8040559 
PMID: 32987794 

