
1. Commun Dis Intell (2018). 2020 Sep 15;44. doi: 10.33321/cdi.2020.44.66.

An outbreak of serotype-1 sequence type 306 invasive pneumococcal disease in an
Australian Indigenous population.

Cook HM(1), Giele CM(2), Jayasinghe SH(3), Wakefield A(4), Krause VL(1); Enhanced
Invasive Pneumococcal Disease Surveillance Working Group.

Author information: 
(1)Enhanced Invasive Pneumococcal Disease Surveillance Working Group; Centre for 
Disease Control, Top End Health Services, Northern Territory, Australia.
(2)Enhanced Invasive Pneumococcal Disease Surveillance Working Group;
Communicable Diseases Control, Health Department of Western Australia, Australia.
(3)Enhanced Invasive Pneumococcal Disease Surveillance Working Group; National
Centre for Immunisation Research and Surveillance (NCIRS); Discipline of Child
and Adolescent Health, Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of Sydney,
Australia.
(4)Enhanced Invasive Pneumococcal Disease Surveillance Working Group;
Communicable Diseases Branch, Queensland Health, Australia.

Between 2010 and 2013, an outbreak of serotype-1 sequence type 306 (ST306)
invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD) occurred primarily in remote locations of
Northern and Central Australia. This is a descriptive study of the epidemiology
of the outbreak using nationwide IPD surveillance data, supplemented with more
detailed data held by affected jurisdictions, and of the response to the
outbreak, including vaccination strategies. In the year the outbreak peaked
(2011), serotype-1 IPD incidence was over 30-fold higher in the affected regions 
than in the rest of Australia (incidence rate ratio: 30.7 [95% CI 20.1-48.9]).
The study includes 245 cases of serotype-1 IPD from the outbreak regions, with
75.5% identified as Indigenous. No reported cases of serotype-1 IPD occurred in
young children who had completed either a 10- or 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate
vaccine schedule. However serotype-1 IPD did occur in older children who had
previously received 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine. Development of
public-health-focused national IPD management guidelines, including suitable
vaccine strategies for consistent use nationwide, could potentially decrease the 
duration and intensity of similar outbreaks in the future.

Â© Commonwealth of Australia CC BY-NC-ND.

DOI: 10.33321/cdi.2020.44.66 
PMID: 32988336 

