
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 May 31;9(6). pii: E294. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics9060294.

Satureja montana L. and Origanum majorana L. Decoctions: Antimicrobial Activity, 
Mode of Action and Phenolic Characterization.

Gomes F(1), Dias MI(2), Lima Â(1), Barros L(2), Rodrigues ME(1), Ferreira
ICFR(2), Henriques M(1).

Author information: 
(1)CEB, Centro de Engenharia Biológica, LIBRO-Laboratório de Investigação em
Biofilmes Rosário Oliveira, Universidade do Minho, 4710-057 Braga, Portugal.
(2)Centro de Investigação de Montanha (CIMO), Instituto Politécnico de Bragança, 
Campus de Santa Apolónia, 5300-253 Bragança, Portugal.

Medicinal and aromatic plants are known to have a wide range of uses and health
benefits, and should be exploited for their bioactivity. Here we evaluated the
antimicrobial activity of decoctions of Satureja montana L. and Origanum majorana
L. against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria and Candida spp. as well as
their mechanism of action and phenolic characterization. The Satureja montana and
Origanum majorana extracts were effective against a broad set of species,
including the Gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecalis, and
Streptococcus dysgalactiae and the Gram-negative Klebsiella pneumoniae and
Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Both extracts were found to have rosmarinic acid as the
main phenolic compound and to exert their antimicrobial activity at the level of 
the cell membrane. Membrane perturbations by the extracts impaired cell membrane 
integrity only a few hours after exposure. This study confirms the bioactive
potential of Satureja montana and Origanum majorana decoctions, and supports the 
development of novel formulations with wide antimicrobial properties based on
these medicinal and aromatic herbs.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9060294 
PMCID: PMC7345152
PMID: 32486517 

