
1. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2020 Aug 31. doi: 10.1007/s12602-020-09703-1.
[Epub ahead of print]

Stimulation of Bovicin HC5 Production and Selection of Improved
Bacteriocin-Producing Streptococcus equinus HC5 Variants.

Moreira SM(1), de Oliveira Mendes TA(2), Mantovani HC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiologia, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Vicosa, MG,
36570-900, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Bioquímica e Biologia Molecular, Universidade Federal de
Viçosa, Vicosa, MG, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Microbiologia, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Vicosa, MG,
36570-900, Brazil. hcm6@ufv.br.

Bovicin HC5 is a peptide that has inhibitory activity against various pathogenic 
microorganisms and food spoilage bacteria. Aiming to improve the productivity of 
this bacteriocin, we evaluated several potential factors that could stimulate the
synthesis of bovicin HC5 and selected variants of Streptococcus equinus
(Streptococcus bovis) HC5 with enhanced bacteriocin production by adaptive
laboratory evolution (ALE). The highest production of the bacteriocin (1.5-fold) 
was observed when Strep. equinus HC5 was cultivated with lactic acid
(100 mmol/L). For the ALE experiment, Strep. equinus HC5 cells were subjected to 
acid-shock (pH 3.0 for 2 h) and maintained in continuous culture for
approximately 140 generations (40 days) in media with lactic acid (100 mmol/L)
and pH-controlled at 5.5 ± 0.2. An adapted variant was selected showing a
distinct phenotype (sedimentation, pigmentation) compared with the parental
strain. Bacteriocin production increased 2-fold in this adapted Strep. equinus
HC5 variant, which appears to be associated with changes in the cell envelope of 
the adapted variant and enhanced bacteriocin release into the culture media. In
addition, the adapted variant showed higher levels of expression of all bovicin
HC5 biosynthetic genes compared with the parental strain during the early and
late stages of growth. Results presented here indicate that ALE is a promising
strategy for selecting strains of lactic acid bacteria with increased production 
of bacteriocins.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-020-09703-1 
PMID: 32865761 

