
1. Front Microbiol. 2019 Dec 20;10:2910. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02910. eCollection 
2019.

Quantification of Human Oral and Fecal Streptococcus parasanguinis by Use of
Quantitative Real-Time PCR Targeting the groEL Gene.

Chen Q(1)(2), Wu G(2), Chen H(2), Li H(2), Li S(2), Zhang C(2), Pang X(2), Wang
L(2), Zhao L(1)(2), Shen J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Systems Biomedicine (Ministry of Education), Shanghai Center
for Systems Biomedicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, School of Life Sciences and
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.

Two pairs of species-specific PCR primers targeting the housekeeping groEL gene, 
Spa146f-Spa525r and Spa93f-Spa525r, were designed to quantify human oral and
fecal Streptococcus parasanguinis. Blast analysis against reference sequences of 
NCBI nucleotide collection database and the Chaperonin Sequence Database showed
the forward primers Spa146f and Spa93f 100% matched only with S. parasanguinis,
and the in silico Simulated PCR algorithm showed both primer pairs hit only S.
parasanguinis groEL gene in Chaperonin Sequence Database. The two primer pairs
were respectively used to perform PCR with saliva DNA of each of 6 human
subjects, and the amplicons of individual PCR reactions were cloned. The
phylogenetic analysis showed cloned sequences were all affiliated to S.
parasanguinis, which further validates the specificity of two primer pairs, and
that individual subjects harbored multiple genotypes of S. parasanguinis in
saliva. By spiking S. parasanguinis into human fecal samples, we found the
quantification limit of quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) assays for both primer 
pairs was 5-6 log10 groEL copies/g feces. Human fecal S. parasanguinis amounts
quantified with qPCR using each of the two primer pairs correlated well with
those determined with metagenomic sequencing. qPCR with either primer pair showed
periodontitis patients had significantly lower level of saliva S. parasanguinis
than healthy people. In both feces and saliva, the S. parasanguinis abundances
quantified with two primer pairs exhibited strong and significant correlation.
Our results show that the two S. parasanguinis-specific primer pairs can be used 
to quantify and profile human saliva and fecal S. parasanguinis.

Copyright Â© 2019 Chen, Wu, Chen, Li, Li, Zhang, Pang, Wang, Zhao and Shen.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.02910 
PMCID: PMC6933288
PMID: 31921079 

