
1. Food Microbiol. 2020 Oct;91:103490. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103490. Epub 2020 Apr 
1.

Molecular analysis of the dominant lactic acid bacteria of chickpea liquid
starters and doughs and propagation of chickpea sourdoughs with selected
Weissella confusa.

Boyaci Gunduz CP(1), Gaglio R(2), Franciosi E(3), Settanni L(2), Erten H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Cukurova University, Faculty of Agriculture, Department of Food Engineering,
01330, Adana, Turkey.
(2)Dipartimento Scienze Agrarie, Alimentari e Forestali, Università degli Studi
di Palermo, Viale delle Scienze 4, 90128, Palermo, Italy.
(3)Research and Innovation Centre, Fondazione Edmund Mach (FEM), Via E. Mach 1,
San Michele all'Adige, Italy.
(4)Cukurova University, Faculty of Agriculture, Department of Food Engineering,
01330, Adana, Turkey. Electronic address: herten@cu.edu.tr.

Fermented chickpea liquid is used as a leavening agent in chickpea bread
production. In the present study, traditional chickpea liquid starter and dough
samples were collected from bakeries in Turkey and microbiologically
investigated. Culture-independent analysis for microbiota diversity, performed by
MiSeq Illumina, identified Clostridium perfringens as major group in all samples,
while Weissella spp. Dominated LAB community. A culture-dependent methodology was
applied and 141 isolates were confirmed to be members of the LAB group based on
16s rRNA gene sequence analysis. In particular, 11 different LAB species were
identified confirming the high frequency of isolation of weissellas, since
Weissella confusa and Weissella cibaria constituted 47.8 and 12.4%, respectively,
of total LAB isolated. The other species were Enterococcus faecium, Enterococcus 
lactis, Lactobacillus brevis, Lactobacillus plantarum, Leuconostoc mesenteroides,
Leuconostoc mesenteroides subsp. Dextranium, Pediococcus acidilactici,
Pediococcus pentosaceus and Streptococcus lutetiensis. Due to high frequency of
isolation, W. confusa strains were investigated at technological level and W.
confusa RL1139 was used as mono-culture starter in the experimental chickpea
sourdough production. Chemical and microbiological properties, as well as
volatile organic compounds (VOCs) of the chickpea liquid starters and doughs were
subjected to a multivariate analysis. Control and W. confusa inoculated chickpea 
liquid starter and dough samples were close to each other in terms of some
characteristics related to chemical, microbiological and VOCs profile, but the
inoculated sourdough showed a higher generation of certain VOCs, like butanoic
acid (81.52%) and ethyl acetate (8.15%) than control sourdough. This is important
in order to maintain typical characteristics of the traditional chickpea dough,
but at the same time improving the aroma profile. This work demonstrated that W. 
confusa RL1139 can be applied at large scale production level without
compromising the typical characteristics of the final product.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2020.103490 
PMID: 32539978 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

