
1. J Mater Sci Mater Med. 2020 Sep 28;31(10):84. doi: 10.1007/s10856-020-06408-3.

Material characterization and Streptococcus oralis adhesion on
Polyetheretherketone (PEEK) and titanium surfaces used in implantology.

D'Ercole S(1), Cellini L(2), Pilato S(2), Di Lodovico S(2), Iezzi G(1), Piattelli
A(1)(3), Petrini M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical, Oral and Biotechnological Sciences, University of
Chieti, Via dei Vestini 31, 66100, Chieti, Italy.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, University of Chieti, Via dei Vestini 31, 66100,
Chieti, Italy.
(3)Fondazione Villa Serena per la Ricerca, Città S. Angelo, Via Petruzzi 42,
65013, Chieti, Italy.
(4)Department of Medical, Oral and Biotechnological Sciences, University of
Chieti, Via dei Vestini 31, 66100, Chieti, Italy. morena.petrini@unich.it.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the interaction between Streptococcus
oralis and Polyetheretherketone (PEEK), a novel material recently introduced in
implantology. The topographical characterization and the Streptococcus oralis
adhesion on this material were compared with other titanium surfaces, currently
used for the production of dental implants: machined and double etched (DAE). The
superficial micro-roughness of the PEEK discs was analyzed by scanning electron
microscopy (SEM) and, the Energy Dispersive Spectrometer (EDS) analyzed their
chemical composition. Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) was used to characterize the 
micro-topography and the sessile method to evaluate the wettability of the
samples. Microbiological analysis measured the colony forming units (CFUs), the
biomass (OD570 detection) and the cell viability after 24 and 48 h after
Streptococcus oralis cultivation on the different discs, that were previously
incubated with saliva. Results showed that PEEK was characterized by a
micro-roughness that was similar to machined titanium but at nano-level the
nano-roughness was significantly higher in respect to the other samples. The EDS 
showed that PEEK superficial composition was characterized mainly by Carbonium
and Oxygen. The hydrophilicity and wetting properties of PEEK were similar to
machined titanium; on the contrary, double etched discs (DAE) samples were
characterized by significantly higher levels (p < 0.05). PEEK was characterized
by significant lower CFUs, biomass and viable cells in respect to the titanium
surfaces. No differences were found between machined and DAE. The anti-adhesive
and antibacterial properties showed by PEEK at 24 and 48 h against a pioneer such
as S. oralis, could have an important role in the prevention of all pathologies
connected with biofilm formation, like peri-implantitis in dentistry or
prosthetic failures in orthopedics.

DOI: 10.1007/s10856-020-06408-3 
PMID: 32989624 

