
1. Front Genet. 2020 Aug 28;11:1024. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2020.01024. eCollection
2020.

In silico Prediction of New Drug Candidates Against the Multidrug-Resistant and
Potentially Zoonotic Fish Pathogen Serotype III Streptococcus agalactiae.

Favero LM(1), Chideroli RT(1), Ferrari NA(1), Azevedo VAC(2), Tiwari S(2),
Lopera-Barrero NM(3), Pereira UP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Fish Bacteriology, Department of Preventive Veterinary Medicine,
State University of Londrina, Londrina, Brazil.
(2)Institute of Biological Sciences, Department of Genetic, Ecology, and
Evolution, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(3)Department of Animal Production, State University of Londrina, Londrina,
Brazil.

Streptococcus agalactiae is an invasive multi-host pathogen that causes invasive 
diseases mainly in newborns, elderly, and individuals with underlying health
complications. In fish, S. agalactiae causes streptococcosis, which is
characterized by septicemia and neurological signs, and leads to great economic
losses to the fish farming industry worldwide. These bacteria can be classified
into different serotypes based on capsular antigens, and into different sequence 
types (ST) based on multilocus sequence typing (MLST). In 2015, serotype III
ST283 was identified to be associated with a foodborne invasive disease in
non-pregnant immunocompetent humans in Singapore, and the infection was related
to raw fish consumption. In addition, a serotype III strain isolated from tilapia
in Brazil has been reported to be resistant to five antibiotic classes. This
specific serotype can serve as a reservoir of resistance genes and pose a serious
threat to public health. Thus, new approaches for the control and treatment of S.
agalactiae infections are needed. In the present study, 24 S. agalactiae serotype
III complete genomes, isolated from human and fish hosts, were compared. The core
genome was identified, and, using bioinformatics tools and subtractive criteria, 
five proteins were identified as potential drug targets. Furthermore, 5,008
drug-like natural compounds were virtually screened against the identified
targets. The ligands with the best binding properties are suggested for further
in vitro and in vivo analysis.

Copyright Â© 2020 Favero, Chideroli, Ferrari, Azevedo, Tiwari, Lopera-Barrero and 
Pereira.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2020.01024 
PMCID: PMC7484375
PMID: 33005185 

