
1. Sensors (Basel). 2020 Jun 12;20(12). pii: E3351. doi: 10.3390/s20123351.

Multiple Bacteria Identification in the Point-of-Care: an Old Method Serving a
New Approach.

Viveiros S(1)(2), Rodrigues M(3), Albuquerque D(1)(2), Martins SAM(2), Cardoso
S(1)(2), Martins VC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Superior Técnico, University of Lisbon, 1049-001 Lisboa, Portugal.
(2)INESC-MN- Microsystems and Nanotechnologies, 1000-029 Lisboa, Portugal.
(3)Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes, Faculdade de
Ciências, Universidade de Lisboa, 1749-016 Lisboa, Portugal.

The accurate diagnosis of bacterial infections is of critical importance for
effective treatment decisions. Due to the multietiologic nature of most
infectious diseases, multiplex assays are essential for diagnostics. However,
multiplexability in nucleic acid amplification-based methods commonly resorts to 
multiple primers and/or multiple reaction chambers, which increases analysis cost
and complexity. Herein, a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) offer method based on a
universal pair of primers and an array of specific oligonucleotide probes was
developed through the analysis of the bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA gene. The
detection system consisted of DNA hybridization over an array of magnetoresistive
sensors in a microfabricated biochip coupled to an electronic reader. Immobilized
probes interrogated single-stranded biotinylated amplicons and were obtained
using asymmetric PCR. Moreover, they were magnetically labelled with
streptavidin-coated superparamagnetic nanoparticles. The benchmarking of the
system was demonstrated to detect five major bovine mastitis-causing pathogens:
Escherichia coli, Klebsiella sp., Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus uberis,
and Streptococcus agalactiae. All selected probes proved to specifically detect
their respective amplicon without significant cross reactivity. A calibration
curve was performed for S. agalactiae, which demonstrates demonstrating a limit
of detection below 30 fg/µL. Thus, a sensitive and specific multiplex detection
assay was established, demonstrating its potential as a bioanalytical device for 
point-of-care applications.

DOI: 10.3390/s20123351 
PMCID: PMC7349726
PMID: 32545686 

