
1. J Emerg Med. 2020 Mar;58(3):e129-e132. doi: 10.1016/j.jemermed.2019.10.019. Epub 
2019 Dec 3.

One Health and Streptococcus Canis in the Emergency Department: A Case of
Cellulitis and Bacteremia in an Immunocompromised Patient Treated With
Etanercept.

Lederman Z(1), Leskes H(2), Brosh-Nissimov T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Medical Ethics and Law, Hong Kong University, Lung Fu Shan, Hong
Kong.
(2)Microbiology Laboratory, Assuta Samson University Hospital, Ashdod, Israel.
(3)Infectious Diseases Unit, Assuta Samson University Hospital, Ashdod, Israel;
Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben Gurion University in the Negev, Beer Sheva,
Israel.

BACKGROUND: One Health is a biomedical approach that aims to optimize the health 
of humans, animals, and the environment through interdisciplinary collaboration. 
Cellulitis is an infection of the dermis and subcutaneous fat that may be caused 
by zoonotic streptococci species.
CASE REPORT: We report a case of cellulitis caused by Streptococcus canis in a
woman who was taking Etanercept. We frame the presentation within a One Health
approach and urge emergency physicians to collaborate with veterinarians in the
management of patients with zoonotic diseases who are discharged home. WHY SHOULD
AN EMERGENCY PHYSICIAN BE AWARE OF THIS?: Pets are a source for zoonotic
diseases, including resistant bacteria, that pose particular risk to
immunocompromised patients. Emergency physicians often discharge patients with
potential zoonotic infections such as cellulitis home without a long-term,
holistic care plan, according to a One Health approach. Physicians should then
collaborate with veterinarians in caring for humans and animals.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jemermed.2019.10.019 
PMID: 31806433 

