
1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2020 Sep 25. pii: AEM.01647-20. doi:
10.1128/AEM.01647-20. [Epub ahead of print]

Expression of an extracellular protein (SMU.63) is regulated by SprV in
Streptococcus mutans.

Pandey SD(1), Biswas I(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Molecular Genetics and Immunology, University of
Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Molecular Genetics and Immunology, University of
Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, USA ibiswas@kumc.edu.

In Streptococcus mutans, SprV (SMU.2137) is a pleiotropic regulator that
differentially regulates genes related to competence, mutacin production, biofilm
formation, stress tolerance response along with some other pathways. In this
study, we established a link between SprV and a ∼67KDa protein in culture
supernatant of UA159 strain that was later confirmed as SMU.63 by MALDI ToF/MS
analysis. We discovered that SprV downregulates the transcription and translation
of SMU.63. We found that the seven amino acids from the C-terminal region of SprV
were also crucial for the expression of SMU.63. Deletion of SMU.63 leads to
increased sucrose-independent biofilm formation and competence. The sprV deletion
also increased biofilm formation although this could be partially attributed to
the down-regulation of SMU. 63. In sprV-SMU.63 double mutant, a synergistic
effect observed in biofilm formation in contrary to competence development. We
found that low or excess magnesium ion represses sprV transcription that in turn 
affected the expression of SMU.63. As expected, a magnesium ion dependent effect 
of competence and biofilm formation was observed in the UA159 strain. We also
replicated the results of SMU.63 expression and competence in S. mutans GS-5 that
encodes both SprV and SMU.63 homologs and found that the GS-5 strain behaves
similarly to the UA159 strain, indicating that SprV's effect is strain
independent.IMPORTANCE We previously identified a pleiotropic regulator, SprV, in
Streptococcus mutans This regulator appears to be highly conserved among
streptococci. Here we showed that SprV regulates the expression of a secreted
protein encoded by SMU.63 in S. mutans SMU.63 has been known to impact biofilm
formation and genetic competence, two important characteristics that help in
colonization of the organism. SMU.63 is also unique since it is known to form
amyloid fiber. We found that SprV regulates the expression of SMU.63 both at the 
transcription and translation level. We also found that the expression of SprV is
regulated by magnesium ion concentration. Interestingly, both low and high
magnesium ion concentration affected biofilm formation and genetic competence.
Since SMU.63 is also highly conserved among streptococci, we hypothesized that
SprV will have similar effect on its expression.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01647-20 
PMID: 32978138 

