
1. Vet Microbiol. 2020 Aug;247:108757. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2020.108757. Epub 2020 
Jun 15.

The prevalence of pathogens causing bovine mastitis and their associated risk
factors in 15 large dairy farms in China: An observational study.

Song X(1), Huang X(2), Xu H(2), Zhang C(2), Chen S(1), Liu F(1), Guan S(1), Zhang
S(1), Zhu K(1), Wu C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Veterinary Medicine, China Agricultural University, PR China; Beijing 
Key Laboratory of Detection Technology for Animal-Derived Food Safety, College of
Veterinary Medicine, China Agricultural University, PR China.
(2)Yili Innovation Center, Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial Group Co., Ltd., PR
China.
(3)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Veterinary Medicine, China Agricultural University, PR China; Beijing 
Key Laboratory of Detection Technology for Animal-Derived Food Safety, College of
Veterinary Medicine, China Agricultural University, PR China. Electronic address:
wucm@cau.edu.cn.

The primary objective of this study was to determine the distribution of major
pathogens causing mastitis and analyze the association of the main pathogens with
the type of milk {milk samples collected from cows with mastitis of different
severities, which consisted of subclinical mastitis (Lanzhou Mastitis Test weak
positive, positive, and strong positive) and clinical mastitis}, region, season, 
bedding material, parity and lactation stage on large dairy farms. Fifteen large 
dairy farms in twelve major milk-producing provinces of China were enrolled in
the study for approximately one year; 1,153 mastitis milk samples were collected 
and processed. The most frequently isolated pathogens were Staphylococcus spp.
(39.03 %), Streptococcus spp. (11.01 %), Bacillus spp. (8.24 %), Aerococcus
viridans (6.76 %), and Acinetobacter spp. (3.38 %), and most of these pathogens
were environmental bacteria (67.53 %). Contagious pathogens (Staphylococcus
aureus and Streptococcus agalactiae) were more prevalent in milk samples from
bovine clinical mastitis cases than in milk samples from bovine subclinical
mastitis cases. The percentages of Staphylococcus spp. and Bacillus spp. might be
higher in northeastern farms than in farms located in other regions. A higher
percentage of Staphylococcus spp. was observed in summer, while a lower
proportion of Streptococcus spp. was detected in fall. Streptococcus agalactiae
and Streptococcus uberis were more frequently isolated in farms using sand
bedding, whereas Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus haemolyticus and Bacillus 
licheniformis were more prevalent in farms using organic bedding. No obvious
associations were found between the main mastitis pathogens and parity or
lactation stage. Based on these findings, the dominant pathogens, types of milk, 
regions, seasons and bedding materials should be considered when designing
mastitis prevention and control programs at large Chinese dairy farms.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2020.108757 
PMID: 32768210 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.

