
1. Plants (Basel). 2020 Sep 29;9(10). pii: E1292. doi: 10.3390/plants9101292.

Surface Characterization, Antimicrobial Activity, and Biocompatibility of
Autopolymerizing Acrylic Resins Coated with Reynoutria elliptica Extract.

Yang SY(1), Kang MK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department and Research Institute of Dental Biomaterials and Bioengineering,
Yonsei University College of Dentistry, Seoul 03722, Korea.
(2)Department of Dental Hygiene, Hanseo University, Chungcheongnam-do 31962,
Korea.

We conducted surface characterization to assess the biocompatibility and
investigate the antimicrobial activity against oral pathogens in autopolymerizing
acrylic resins, coated with light-curable coating resin, containing various
concentrations of Reynoutria elliptica extract (0, 200, 400, and 600 Âµg/mL). The 
R. elliptica extract powder was prepared using a freeze-drying technique.
Further, a goniometer and microhardness tester were used to determine the water
contact angle, and Vickers hardness, respectively; color measurements were
performed on the uncoated and coated acrylic resin disks. The polyphenol content 
of the extracts from the coated acrylic resin disk was analyzed using UV-VIS
spectroscopy. The antimicrobial activity of the coated acrylic resin disk against
Streptococcus mutans and Candida albicans was observed for 24 and 48 h by
measuring the optical density using spectrophotometry. In addition,
biocompatibility was confirmed by testing the cell viability according to ISO
10993-5. The water contact angle, Vickers hardness, and color change values of
the coated acrylic resin disks were not significantly different from the control.
Polyphenol was detected in all experimental groups, with no significant
differences between the experimental groups. The experimental groups exhibited
significant antimicrobial activity against S. mutans and C. albicans compared to 
the control group, after 48 h of incubation. The cell viability between the
control and experimental groups was not significantly different. The proposed
coating resin containing R. elliptica extract is applicable on dental acrylic
resins, due to their antimicrobial properties and excellent biocompatibility,
with no deterioration of surface characteristics.

DOI: 10.3390/plants9101292 
PMID: 33003649 

