
1. Animals (Basel). 2020 Aug 22;10(9). pii: E1474. doi: 10.3390/ani10091474.

Dietary Energy Levels Affect Rumen Bacterial Populations that Influence the
Intramuscular Fat Fatty Acids of Fattening Yaks (Bos grunniens).

Hu R(1), Zou H(1), Wang H(1), Wang Z(1), Wang X(1), Ma J(1), Shah AM(1), Peng
Q(1), Xue B(1), Wang L(1), Zhao S(2), Kong X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Low Carbon Breeding Cattle and Safety Production-University Key Laboratory of 
Sichuan Province, Animal Nutrition Institute, Sichuan Agricultural University,
Chengdu 611130, China.
(2)Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Institute, Haibei 812200, China.

The yak rumen microflora has more efficient fiber-degrading and energy-harvesting
abilities than that of low-altitude cattle; however, few studies have
investigated the effects of dietary energy levels on the rumen bacterial
populations and the relationship between rumen bacteria and the intramuscular
fatty acid profile of fattening yaks. In this study, thirty yaks were randomly
assigned to three groups. Each group received one of the three isonitrogenous
diets with low (3.72 MJ/kg), medium (4.52 MJ/kg), and high (5.32 MJ/kg) levels of
net energy for maintenance and fattening. After 120 days of feeding, results
showed that increasing dietary energy significantly increased ruminal propionate 
fermentation and reduced ammonia concentration. The 16S rDNA sequencing results
showed that increasing dietary energy significantly increased the ratio of
Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes and stimulated the relative abundance of
Succiniclasticum, Saccharofermentans, Ruminococcus, and Blautia populations. The 
quantitative real-time PCR analysis showed that high dietary energy increased the
abundances of Streptococcus bovis, Prevotella ruminicola, and Ruminobacter
amylophilus at the species level. Association analysis showed that ruminal
acetate was positively related to some intramuscular saturated fatty acid (SFA)
contents, and Prevotella was significantly positively related to intramuscular
total polyunsaturated fatty acid content and negatively related to intramuscular 
total SFA content. This study showed that high dietary energy mainly increased
ruminal amylolytic and propionate-producing bacteria populations, which gave
insights into how the effects of dietary energy on rumen bacteria are related to 
intramuscular fat fatty acids of fattening yaks.

DOI: 10.3390/ani10091474 
PMID: 32842565 

