
1. Pathogens. 2020 Apr 16;9(4). pii: E288. doi: 10.3390/pathogens9040288.

Prevention of Intramammary Infections by Prepartum External Application of a Teat
Dip Containing Lactic Acid Bacteria with Antimicrobial Properties in Dairy
Heifers.

Paduch JH(1), Lücking J(1), Mansion-de Vries E(1), Zinke C(1), Wente N(1),
Krömker V(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioprocess Engineering and Microbiology, University of Applied
Sciences and Arts Hannover, D-30453 Hannover, Germany.
(2)Section for Production, Nutrition and Health, Department of Veterinary and
Animal Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of
Copenhagen, DK-1870 Frederiksberg C, Denmark.

The aim of the current study was to investigate the effects of the prepartum
external treatment of teats with a combination of four lactic acid bacteria
strains viz. Lactobacillus (Lb.) rhamnosus ATCC 7469, Lactococcus lactis subsp.
lactis ATCC 11454, Lb. paracasei 78/37 (DSM 26911), and Lb. plantarum 118/37 (DSM
26912) on the postcalving udder health of dairy heifers. The study used a
split-udder design. Two weeks before the expected calving date, one of two
contralateral teats of a teat pair was dipped with an aqueous suspension of
lactic acid bacteria (final bacterial counts 8.40-8.47 log10-transformed CFU/mL) 
once in a week until calving; the other teat of the pair was not treated. After
calving, quarter foremilk samples were taken and investigated
cyto-microbiologically. In total, 629 teat pairs of 319 heifers were included.
There was an association between the treatment and intramammary infections caused
by the major udder-pathogenic bacteria Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus
dysgalactiae, and enterococci, as well as clinical mastitis in the first 100 days
after calving. The present study indicates that intramammary infections with
major pathogens and clinical mastitis may be prevented by regular prepartum
external application of lactic acid bacteria in dairy heifers.

DOI: 10.3390/pathogens9040288 
PMCID: PMC7238184
PMID: 32316092 

