
1. J Fish Dis. 2020 Sep 21. doi: 10.1111/jfd.13266. [Epub ahead of print]

CD40 induces an antimicrobial response against the intracellular pathogen
Streptococcus agalactiae in Nile tilapia, Oreochromis niloticus.

Xia H(1)(2), Fan H(1)(2), Long M(1)(2), Cheng J(1)(2), Chen W(1)(2), Yu D(1)(2), 
Xia L(1)(2)(3), Lu Y(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Shenzhen Institute of Guangdong Ocean University, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Engineering Research Center for Aquatic Animal Health
Assessment, Shenzhen Public Service Platform for Evaluation of Marine Economic
Animal Seedings, Shenzhen Institute of Guangdong Ocean University, Shenzhen,
Guangdong, China.
(3)College of Fishery, Guangdong Ocean University, Zhanjiang, China.

Streptococcus agalactiae is a Gram-positive facultative intracellular bacterium
that leads to severe economic loss of tilapia worldwide. Previous studies
demonstrated that CD40 contributes to host protection against intracellular
injection. In this study, CD40 was characterized from Nile tilapia (Oreochromis
niloticus), named OnCD40. Sequence analysis showed that open reading frame of
OnCD40 was 933 bp, containing a single peptide, a transmembrane domain and four
cysteine-rich domains. The qRT-PCR revealed that OnCD40 was expressed in all
examined tissues with the most abundant ones in spleen and thymus. After S.
agalactiae stimulation, the expression of OnCD40 was significantly induced in
most of the detected organs. Moreover, OnCD40-overexpressing fish elicited
significant protection against subsequent S. agalactiae challenge; approximately 
10000-fold fewer bacteria were detected in spleen of OnCD40-overexpressing fish
in comparison with control fish. Thus, CD40 had protecting function in Nile
tilapia against intracellular pathogens.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jfd.13266 
PMID: 32959439 

