
1. J Nutr Biochem. 2020 Sep 10:108492. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2020.108492. [Epub
ahead of print]

Osteoprotective effect of green tea polyphenols and annatto-extracted tocotrienol
in obese mice is associated with enhanced microbiome vitamin K2 biosynthetic
pathways.

Elmassry MM(1), Chung E(2), Cao JJ(3), Hamood AN(4), Shen CL(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX 79409.
Electronic address: moamen.elmassry@ttu.edu.
(2)Department of Kinesiology, Health, and Nutrition, University of Texas at San
Antonio, San Antonio, TX 78249. Electronic address: eunhee.chung@utsa.edu.
(3)USDA ARS Grand Forks Human Nutrition Research Center, Grand Forks, ND 58203.
Electronic address: jay.cao@usda.gov.
(4)Department of Immunology and Molecular Microbiology, Texas Tech University
Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430; Department of Surgery, Texas Tech
University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430. Electronic address:
abdul.hamood@ttuhsc.edu.
(5)Department of Pathology, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center,
Lubbock, TX 79430; Center of Excellence for Integrative Health, Texas Tech
University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430; Obesity Research Institute,
Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX 79409. Electronic address:
leslie.shen@ttuhsc.edu.

The role of the gut microbiome in bone health has received significant attention 
in the past decade. We investigated the effects of green tea polyphenols (GTP)
and annatto-extracted tocotrienols (AT) on bone properties and gut microbiome in 
obese mice. Male mice were assigned to a two (no AT vs. 400 mg/kg diet AT)×two
(no GTP vs. 0.5% w/v GTP) factorial design, namely control, G, T, and G+T group
respectively, for 14 weeks. The 4th lumbar vertebra (LV-4) and femur were
harvested for bone microstructural analysis using μ-CT. Microbiome analysis using
16S rRNA gene sequencing of cecal feces was performed. AT increased bone volume
at distal femur. GTP increased serum procollagen type 1 N-terminal propeptide
concentration, bone volume at the distal femur and the LV-4, and trabecular
number at distal femur; whereas GTP decreased trabecular separation at distal
femur. Interactions between GTP and AT were observed in serum C-terminal
telopeptide of type I collagen level (control>G=T=G+T) as well as the cortical
bone area (control<G=T=G+T) and thickness (T≥G+T≥G≥control) at femur
mid-diaphysis. Redundancy analysis showed a significant difference in the gut
microbiome profile among different groups and the relative abundance of
Akkermansia muciniphila, Clostridum saccharogumia, and Subdoligranulum variabile 
was increased in the GTP- and AT-supplemented groups. Functional profiling of the
gut microbiome showed the combination of GTP and AT induced biosynthetic pathways
for vitamin K2. Our results suggest that GTP and AT supplementation benefits bone
properties in obese mice through modifying gut microbiome composition and
function.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2020.108492 
PMID: 32920088 

