
1. mBio. 2020 Jul 14;11(4). pii: e00886-20. doi: 10.1128/mBio.00886-20.

Vitamin Biosynthesis by Human Gut Butyrate-Producing Bacteria and Cross-Feeding
in Synthetic Microbial Communities.

Soto-Martin EC(1), Warnke I(1), Farquharson FM(1), Christodoulou M(1), Horgan
G(2), Derrien M(3), Faurie JM(3), Flint HJ(1), Duncan SH(1), Louis P(4).

Author information: 
(1)The Rowett Institute, University of Aberdeen, Foresterhill, Aberdeen, United
Kingdom.
(2)Biomathematics & Statistics Scotland, Aberdeen, United Kingdom.
(3)Danone Nutricia Research, Palaiseau, Paris, France.
(4)The Rowett Institute, University of Aberdeen, Foresterhill, Aberdeen, United
Kingdom p.louis@abdn.ac.uk.

We investigated the requirement of 15 human butyrate-producing gut bacterial
strains for eight B vitamins and the proteinogenic amino acids by a combination
of genome sequence analysis and in vitro growth experiments. The Ruminococcaceae 
species Faecalibacterium prausnitzii and Subdoligranulum variabile were
auxotrophic for most of the vitamins and the amino acid tryptophan. Within the
Lachnospiraceae, most species were prototrophic for all amino acids and several
vitamins, but biotin auxotrophy was widespread. In addition, most of the strains 
belonging to Eubacterium rectale and Roseburia spp., but few of the other
Lachnospiraceae strains, were auxotrophic for thiamine and folate. Synthetic
coculture experiments of five thiamine or folate auxotrophic strains with
different prototrophic bacteria in the absence and presence of different vitamin 
concentrations were carried out. This demonstrated that cross-feeding between
bacteria does take place and revealed differences in cross-feeding efficiency
between prototrophic strains. Vitamin-independent growth stimulation in coculture
compared to monococulture was also observed, in particular for F. prausnitzii
A2-165, suggesting that it benefits from the provision of other growth factors
from community members. The presence of multiple vitamin auxotrophies in the most
abundant butyrate-producing Firmicutes species found in the healthy human colon
indicates that these bacteria depend upon vitamins supplied from the diet or via 
cross-feeding from other members of the microbial community.IMPORTANCE Microbes
in the intestinal tract have a strong influence on human health. Their
fermentation of dietary nondigestible carbohydrates leads to the formation of
health-promoting short-chain fatty acids, including butyrate, which is the main
fuel for the colonic wall and has anticarcinogenic and anti-inflammatory
properties. A good understanding of the growth requirements of butyrate-producing
bacteria is important for the development of efficient strategies to promote
these microbes in the gut, especially in cases where their abundance is altered. 
The demonstration of the inability of several dominant butyrate producers to grow
in the absence of certain vitamins confirms the results of previous in silico
analyses. Furthermore, establishing that strains prototrophic for thiamine or
folate (butyrate producers and non-butyrate producers) were able to stimulate
growth and affect the composition of auxotrophic synthetic communities suggests
that the provision of prototrophic bacteria that are efficient cross feeders may 
stimulate butyrate-producing bacteria under certain in vivo conditions.

Copyright Â© 2020 Soto-Martin et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mBio.00886-20 
PMCID: PMC7360928
PMID: 32665271 

