
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jul 30;11:1758. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01758. eCollection 
2020.

A Refined View of Airway Microbiome in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease at
Species and Strain-Levels.

Wang Z(1), Liu H(2), Wang F(3), Yang Y(3), Wang X(1), Chen B(1), Stampfli MR(4), 
Zhou H(2), Shu W(1), Brightling CE(5), Liang Z(3), Chen R(3)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ecological Science, School of Life Sciences, South China Normal
University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Organ Failure Research, Microbiome Medicine Center,
Division of Laboratory Medicine, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, National Clinical Research Center
for Respiratory Disease, Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory Health, The First
Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(4)Department of Medicine, Firestone Institute for Respiratory Health at St.
Joseph's Healthcare, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(5)Institute for Lung Health, NIHR Leicester Biomedical Research Centre,
Department of Respiratory Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, United
Kingdom.
(6)Pulmonary and Critical Care Department, Shenzhen Institute of Respiratory
Diseases, Shenzhen People's Hospital, Shenzhen, China.

Little is known about the underlying airway microbiome diversity in chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) at in-depth taxonomic levels. Here we
present the first insights on the COPD airway microbiome at species and
strain-levels. The full-length 16S rRNA gene was characterized from sputum in 98 
COPD patients and 27 age-matched healthy controls, using the Pacific Biosciences 
sequencing platform. Individual species within the same genus exhibited
reciprocal relationships with COPD and disease severity. Species dominant in
health can be taken over by another species within the same genus but with
potentially increasing pathogenicity in severe COPD patients. Ralstonia
mannitolilytica, an opportunistic pathogen, was significantly increased in
frequent exacerbators (fold-change = 4.94, FDR P = 0.005). There were distinct
patterns of interaction between bacterial species and host inflammatory mediators
according to neutrophilic or eosinophilic inflammations, two major airway
inflammatory phenotypes in COPD. Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis,
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Neisseria meningitidis were associated with enhanced 
Th1, Th17 and pro-inflammatory mediators, while a group of seven species
including Tropheryma whipplei were specifically associated with Th2 mediators
related to eosinophilia. We developed an automated pipeline to assign
strain-level taxonomy leveraging bacterial intra-genomic 16S allele frequency.
Using this pipeline we further resolved three non-typeable H. influenzae strains 
PittEE, PittGG and 86-028NP with reasonable precision and uncovered strain-level 
variation related to airway inflammation. In particular, 86-028NP and PittGG
strains exhibited inverse associations with Th2 chemokines CCL17 and CCL13,
suggesting their abundances may inversely predict eosinophilic inflammation. A
systematic comparison of 16S hypervariable regions indicated V1V3 instead of the 
commonly used V4 region was the best surrogate for airway microbiome. The
full-length 16S data augmented the power of functional inference, which slightly 
better recapitulated the actual metagenomes. This led to the unique
identification of butyrate-producing and nitrate reduction pathways as depleted
in COPD. Our analysis uncovered finer-scale airway microbial diversity that was
previously underappreciated, thus enabled a refined view of the airway microbiome
in COPD.

Copyright Â© 2020 Wang, Liu, Wang, Yang, Wang, Chen, Stampfli, Zhou, Shu,
Brightling, Liang and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01758 
PMCID: PMC7406711
PMID: 32849386 

