
1. Am J Surg Pathol. 2020 Sep;44(9):1251-1258. doi: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000001491.

Gastrointestinal Malakoplakia: Clinicopathologic Analysis of 26 Cases.

Zhang Y(1), Byrnes K(2), Lam-Himlin D(3), Pittman M(4), Pezhouh M(5), Gonzalez
RS(6), Alruwaii Z(1), Larman T(1), Miller JA(1), Matoso A(1), Oshima K(1),
Epstein JI(1), Montgomery EA(1), Voltaggio L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD.
(2)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ.
(4)Department of Pathology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY.
(5)Department of Pathology, Northwestern University, Feinberg School of Medicine,
Chicago, IL.
(6)Department of Pathology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA.

Malakoplakia is an inflammatory process related to defective macrophage response 
to bacterial infection. To further characterize the clinicopathologic
manifestations of gastrointestinal malakoplakia, 26 cases were identified from 6 
institutions. Hematoxylin and eosin-stained slides and available stains were
reviewed, and pertinent clinicopathologic features analyzed. Sixteen patients
were women (62%). Mean patient age was 64 (range: 24 to 83). Sites included the
colorectum (n=23), appendix (n=1), and stomach (n=2). Clinical indications for
tissue procurement included screening (n=14), tumor resection (n=5), diarrhea
(n=1), adenoma surveillance (n=1), ulcerative colitis flare (n=1), abdominal pain
(n=1), and appendicitis (1). All cases featured histiocytes with abundant, pale, 
eosinophilic cytoplasm focally containing Michaelis-Gutmann bodies. The process
frequently involved the mucosa (n=19), with architectural distortion in 13 cases.
Lymphoid aggregates were present in 18 cases, which were prominent or obscuring
in 11 (all colon biopsies) and provoked concern for lymphoma in 2. Associated
findings included adenocarcinoma (n=5), adenoma (n=2), gastric hyperplastic
polyps (n=1), chemical gastritis (n=1), collagenous colitis (n=1), and active
chronic colitis (n=2). In cases with available stains, Michaelis-Gutman bodies
were highlighted by Periodic Acid-Schiff with diastase, Von Kossa, and iron
stains. Although 2 cases were positive for Tropheryma whipplei antibody, no T.
whipplei transcripts were detected on real-time polymerase chain reaction. All
patients with available follow-up are alive and well with no additional instances
of malakoplakia. Malakoplakia of the gastrointestinal tract is a benign,
incidental finding. Although histologic features in the stomach and colon
resections are similar to those at other sites, exuberant lymphocytic response in
colon biopsies and immunoreactivity with T. whippleii antibody may provoke
initial confusion and lead to unnecessary time and resource investment.

DOI: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000001491 
PMID: 32301754 

