
1. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2020 Sep 4. pii: S1198-743X(20)30519-X. doi:
10.1016/j.cmi.2020.08.036. [Epub ahead of print]

Whipple disease: a 15-year retrospective study on 36 patients with positive
polymerase chain reaction for Tropheryma whipplei.

Duss FR(1), Jaton K(2), Vollenweider P(1), Troillet N(3), Greub G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital of Lausanne, Lausanne,
Switzerland.
(2)Institute of Microbiology, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases Valais Hospital, Sion, Switzerland.
(4)Institute of Microbiology, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
Electronic address: gilbert.greub@chuv.ch.

Our institution has performed microbiological diagnosis of Tropheryma whipplei
since 2001, initially with a PCR targeting 16S rRNA before the development of a
quantitative PCR in 2012. Here we report the clinical characteristics of a cohort
of patients suffering from Whipple disease (WD) and evaluate the impact of these 
molecular techniques. Patients with a positive PCR for T. whipplei between 2001
and 2016 were retrospectively collected from microbiological databases. Two
infectious diseases specialists reviewed their medical records and classified
them as definite WD, probable WD or carriage of T. whipplei without disease. A
total of 1153 samples were tested for T. whipplei; 76 samples taken from 36
patients were positive. Fifteen were considered as presenting a definite WD,
seven as a probable WD and 14 as carriers. Median age was 56.4 years (extremes,
6.6-76.1). Median time from symptoms to diagnosis was 3 years (2.5 months to
13.3 years). About 60% were immunosuppressed. The most frequent clinical
presentations were joint pain (16/22), weight loss (15/22) and/or digestive tract
disorder (15/22); 41% had neurological manifestations, 32% pulmonary involvement 
and 32% lymphadenopathies. Bacterial load in faeces or saliva were 88 425
copies/mL (IQR 6175-292 725) in definite and probable WD and 311 copies/mL (IQR
253-2090) in carriers, respectively. We observed a 90% PPV above 32 200 copies/mL
in faeces. WD is a chronic multisystemic disease with frequent pulmonary
involvement. Underlying immunodeficiency is commonly observed leading to more
complex clinical presentation. Positive T. whipplei PCR in both stool and saliva 
has a high positive predictive value. Moreover, patients with WD present higher
bacterial load in faeces with a threshold of >32 200 copies/mL predicting ongoing
infection.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmi.2020.08.036 
PMID: 32896657 

