
1. Intest Res. 2020 Jul 3. doi: 10.5217/ir.2019.09177. [Epub ahead of print]

Whipple disease mimicking inflammatory bowel disease.

Tatsuki M(1), Ishige T(1), Igarashi Y(1), Hatori R(1), Hokama A(2), Hirato J(3), 
Muise A(4), Takizawa T(1), Arakawa H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Gunma University Graduate School of Medicine,
Maebashi, Japan.
(2)Department of Endoscopy, University of the Ryukyus, Nishihara, Japan.
(3)Clinical Department of Pathology, Gunma University Hospital, Maebashi, Japan.
(4)Cell Biology Program, Inflammatory Bowel Disease Centre, The Hospital for Sick
Children, Toronto, ON, Canada.

Whipple disease is a systemic chronic infection caused by Tropheryma whipplei.
Although chronic diarrhea is a common gastrointestinal symptom, diagnosis is
often difficult because there are no specific endoscopic findings, and the
pathogen is not detectable by stool culture. We present a female patient with
Whipple disease who developed chronic bloody diarrhea and growth retardation at
the age of 4 years. Colonoscopy showed a mildly edematous terminal ileum and
marked erythema without vascular patterns throughout the sigmoid colon and
rectum. Subsequently, a primary diagnosis of ulcerative colitis was made.
Histopathological analysis of the terminal ileum showed the presence of foamy
macrophages filled with periodic acidSchiff-positive particles. Polymerase chain 
reaction using DNA from a terminal ileum biopsy sample amplified a fragment of
16S rRNA from T. whipplei. Antibiotic treatment relieved the patient's symptoms. 
There was no evidence of immunodeficiency in the present case. Since Whipple
disease worsens after anti-tumor necrosis factor inhibitor therapy, considering
this infection in the differential diagnosis may be important in patients with
inflammatory bowel disease, especially before initiation of immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.5217/ir.2019.09177 
PMID: 32610889 

