
1. SAGE Open Med Case Rep. 2020 Jun 30;8:2050313X20936952. doi:
10.1177/2050313X20936952. eCollection 2020.

A rare case of Whipple's disease with endocarditis in a patient with
dextrocardia.

Sullivan A(1), Shrestha P(1), Basnet S(1), Herb R(1), Zagorski E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Reading Hospital-Tower Health System, PA,
USA.

We report a case of an elderly Caucasian male with past medical history of
dextrocardia with situs inversus totalis, polymyalgia rheumatica, history of
cryptogenic stroke, and severe mitral regurgitation with mitral valve prolapse,
who presented with acute heart failure symptoms, including severe dyspnea on
exertion and worsening lower extremity edema in the setting of immunosuppression 
with steroids for a year-old diagnosis of polymyalgia rheumatica. One month prior
to this presentation, the patient suffered a transient ischemic attack and during
the workup, his transthoracic echocardiography showed myxomatous degeneration of 
posterior mitral leaflet, partially flail, with severe mitral regurgitation,
which required mitral valve replacement. Genome sequencing of mitral valve
anterior leaflet pathology detected Tropheryma whipplei as a causal agent of
culture-negative endocarditis. The patient was treated with 6 weeks of
ceftriaxone and ampicillin-sulbactam and further continued
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for 1 year. He continued antibiotic treatment with 
resolution of shortness of breath along with arthralgia.

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1177/2050313X20936952 
PMCID: PMC7328352
PMID: 32655867 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interests: The
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.

