
1. Infect Drug Resist. 2020 Jun 10;13:1697-1711. doi: 10.2147/IDR.S253363.
eCollection 2020.

The Antibacterial Activity and Mechanism of Action of Luteolin Against
Trueperella pyogenes.

Guo Y(1), Liu Y(2), Zhang Z(1), Chen M(1), Zhang D(1), Tian C(1), Liu M(1), Jiang
G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Livestock Infectious Diseases in Northeast China, Ministry
of Education, College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Shenyang
Agricultural University, Shenyang, Liaoning, People's Republic of China.
(2)Dalian Sanyi Animal Medicine Co., Ltd., Dalian, Liaoning, People's Republic of
China.

Purpose: This research aimed to investigate the antibacterial activity and
potential mechanism of luteolin against T. pyogenes.
Materials and Methods: The broth microdilution method was used to determine the
minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of luteolin against various T. pyogenes 
strains. The potential mechanism of action of luteolin was elucidated through
testing and analysing the luteolin-induced alterations of T. pyogenes in several 
aspects, including cell wall, cell membrane, protein expression, nucleic acid
content, topoisomerase activity and energy metabolism.
Results: The MIC values of luteolin against various T. pyogenes isolates and
ATCC19411 were 78 µg/mL. The increased cell membrane permeability, destruction of
cell wall integrity and TEM images after exposure to luteolin showed that the
cell wall and membrane were damaged. The content of total protein and nucleic
acid in T. pyogenes decreased significantly after treatment with luteolin (1/2
MIC) for 12, 24, and 36 h. Moreover, a hypochromic effect was observed in the
absorption spectrum of luteolin when deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) was added. In
addition, after treatment with luteolin, a decrease in nicked or relaxed DNA
content, which was catalysed by T. pyogenes-isolated DNA topoisomerase, was
observed. In addition, the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) content in cells and the 
activity of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) both decreased when T. pyogenes was
exposed to different concentrations (1/4 MIC, 1/2 MIC, 1 MIC, 2 MIC) of luteolin 
for 1 h.
Conclusion: Luteolin showed distinct antibacterial activity against T. pyogenes
by multiple actions, which mainly include destroying the integrity of the cell
wall and cell membrane, influencing the expression of proteins, inhibiting
nucleic acid synthesis, and interfering with energy metabolism.

© 2020 Guo et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IDR.S253363 
PMCID: PMC7293968
PMID: 32606820 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in
this work.

