
1. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Jun 13;21(12). pii: E4230. doi: 10.3390/ijms21124230.

New Determinants of Aminoglycoside Resistance and Their Association with the
Class 1 Integron Gene Cassettes in Trueperella pyogenes.

Kwiecień E(1), Stefańska I(1), Chrobak-Chmiel D(1), Sałamaszyńska-Guz A(1),
Rzewuska M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Preclinical Sciences, Institute of Veterinary Medicine, Warsaw
University of Life Sciences, Ciszewskiego 8 St., 02-786 Warsaw, Poland.

Trueperella pyogenes is an important opportunistic animal pathogen. Different
antimicrobials, including aminoglycosides, are used to treat T. pyogenes
infections. The aim of the present study was to evaluate aminoglycoside
susceptibility and to detect aminoglycoside resistance determinants in 86 T.
pyogenes isolates of different origin. Minimum inhibitory concentration of
gentamicin, streptomycin, and kanamycin was determined using a standard broth
microdilution method. Genetic elements associated with aminoglycoside resistance 
were investigated by PCR and DNA sequencing. All studied isolates were
susceptible to gentamicin, but 32.6% and 11.6% of them were classified as
resistant to streptomycin and kanamycin, respectively. A total of 30 (34.9%)
isolates contained class 1 integrons. Class 1 integron gene cassettes carrying
aminoglycoside resistance genes, aadA11 and aadA9, were found in seven and two
isolates, respectively. Additionally, the aadA9 gene found in six isolates was
not associated with mobile genetic elements. Moreover, other, not carried by gene
cassettes, aminoglycoside resistance genes, strA-strB and aph(3')-IIIa, were also
detected. Most importantly, this is the first description of all reported genes
in T. pyogenes. Nevertheless, the relevance of the resistance phenotype to
genotype was not perfectly matched in 14 isolates. Therefore, further
investigations are needed to fully explain aminoglycoside resistance mechanisms
in T. pyogenes.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21124230 
PMCID: PMC7352783
PMID: 32545831 

