
1. Reproduction. 2020 Jul;160(1):93-107. doi: 10.1530/REP-19-0564.

Uterine infection alters the transcriptome of the bovine reproductive tract three
months later.

Horlock AD(1), Piersanti RL(2), Ramirez-Hernandez R(2), Yu F(3), Ma Z(2), Jeong
KC(2), Clift MJD(1), Block J(2), Santos JEP(2), Bromfield JJ(2), Sheldon IM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Swansea University Medical School, Swansea University, Swansea, UK.
(2)Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida,
USA.
(3)Interdisciplinary Center for Biotechnology Research, University of Florida,
Gainesville, Florida, USA.

Infection of the postpartum uterus with pathogenic bacteria is associated with
infertility months later in dairy cattle. However, it is unclear whether these
bacterial infections lead to long-term changes in the reproductive tract that
might help explain this infertility. Here we tested the hypothesis that infusion 
of pathogenic bacteria into the uterus leads to changes in the transcriptome of
the reproductive tract 3 months later. We used virgin Holstein heifers to avoid
potential confounding effects of periparturient problems, lactation, and negative
energy balance. Animals were infused intrauterine with endometrial pathogenic
bacteria Escherichia coli and Trueperella pyogenes (n = 4) and compared with
control animals (n = 6). Three months after infusion, caruncular and
intercaruncular endometrium, isthmus and ampulla of the oviduct, and granulosa
cells from ovarian follicles >8 mm diameter were profiled by RNA sequencing.
Bacterial infusion altered the transcriptome of all the tissues when compared
with control. Most differentially expressed genes were tissue specific, with 109 
differentially expressed genes unique to caruncular endometrium, 57 in
intercaruncular endometrium, 65 in isthmus, 298 in ampulla, and 83 in granulosa
cells. Surprisingly, despite infusing bacteria into the uterus, granulosa cells
had more predicted upstream regulators of differentially expressed genes than all
the other tissues combined. In conclusion, there were changes in the
transcriptome of the endometrium, oviduct and even granulosa cells, 3 months
after intrauterine infusion of pathogenic bacteria. These findings imply that
long-term changes throughout the reproductive tract could contribute to
infertility after bacterial infections of the uterus.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-19-0564 
PMCID: PMC7291824 [Available on 2021-07-01]
PMID: 32422601 

