
1. Vaccines (Basel). 2020 Jun 17;8(2). pii: E314. doi: 10.3390/vaccines8020314.

Search of Potential Vaccine Candidates against Trueperella pyogenes Infections
through Proteomic and Bioinformatic Analysis.

Galán-Relaño Á(1), Gómez-Gascón L(1), Rodríguez-Franco A(2), Luque I(1), Huerta
B(1), Tarradas C(1), Rodríguez-Ortega MJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Sanidad Animal, Universidad de Córdoba; Campus de Excelencia
Internacional CeiA3, 14071 Córdoba, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Bioquímica y Biología Molecular, Universidad de Córdoba, and
Campus de Excelencia Internacional CeiA3, 14071 Córdoba, Spain.

Trueperella pyogenes is an opportunistic pathogen, responsible for important
infections in pigs and significant economic losses in swine production. To date, 
there are no available commercial vaccines to control diseases caused by this
bacterium. In this work, we performed a comparative proteomic analysis of 15 T.
pyogenes clinical isolates, by "shaving" live cells, followed by LC-MS/MS, aiming
at the identification of the whole set of surface proteins (i.e., the
"pan-surfome") as a source of antigens to be tested in further studies as
putative vaccine candidates, or used in diagnostic tools. A total of 140 surface 
proteins were detected, comprising 25 cell wall proteins, 10 secreted proteins,
23 lipoproteins and 82 membrane proteins. After describing the "pan-surfome", the
identified proteins were ranked in three different groups based on the following 
criteria: to be (i) surface-exposed, (ii) highly conserved and (iii) widely
distributed among different isolates. Two cell wall proteins, three lipoproteins,
four secreted and seven membrane proteins were identified in more than 70% of the
studied strains, were highly expressed and highly conserved. These proteins are
potential candidates, alone or in combination, to obtain effective vaccines
against T. pyogenes or to be used in the diagnosis of this pathogen.

DOI: 10.3390/vaccines8020314 
PMCID: PMC7350218
PMID: 32560444 

