
1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2020 Jul 9;9(7). pii: E392. doi: 10.3390/antibiotics9070392.

Oxytetracycline Pharmacokinetics After Intramuscular Administration in Cows with 
Clinical Metritis Associated with Trueperella Pyogenes Infection.

Mileva R(1), Karadaev M(2), Fasulkov I(2), Petkova T(1), Rusenova N(3), Vasilev
N(2), Milanova A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Animal Physiology and Physiological Chemistry,
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Trakia University, 6000 Stara Zagora, Bulgaria.
(2)Department of Obstetrics, Reproduction and Reproductive Disorders, Faculty of 
Veterinary Medicine, Trakia University, 6000 Stara Zagora, Bulgaria.
(3)Department of Veterinary Microbiology, Infectious and Parasitic Diseases,
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Trakia University, 6000 Stara Zagora, Bulgaria.

Systemic therapy with oxytetracycline is often used for treatment of clinical
metritis although data about its penetration into the uterus and uterine
secretion are lacking. Uterine secretions and milk from six cows with clinical
metritis were collected for microbiological assay. The animals were treated
intramuscularly with long-acting oxytetracycline (20 mg/kg) and samples of
plasma, milk and uterine secretions were collected for determination of the
antibiotic concentrations by HPLC-PDA analysis. Pharmacokinetics of the
antibiotic and in silico prediction of its penetration into the uterus were
described. Trueperella pyogenes with MIC values of 16-64 Âµg mL-1 was isolated (n 
of cows = 4) from uterine secretions. Oxytetracycline showed fast absorption and 
penetration in the uterine secretions and milk. No change of withdrawal time for 
milk was necessitated in cows with clinical metritis. Maximum levels in uterine
secretions and predicted concentrations of oxytetracycline in the uterus were
lower than MIC values. Systemic administration of long-acting oxytetracycline did
not guarantee clinical cure and was not a suitable choice for treatment of
clinical metritis associated with Trueperella pyogenes. The appropriate approach 
to antibiotic treatment of uterine infections of cows requires knowledge on
penetration of the antibiotics at the site of infection and sensitivity of
pathogens.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics9070392 
PMCID: PMC7400317
PMID: 32659893 

