
1. Comput Struct Biotechnol J. 2020 May 16;18:1228-1237. doi:
10.1016/j.csbj.2020.05.015. eCollection 2020.

Abasy Atlas v2.2: The most comprehensive and up-to-date inventory of
meta-curated, historical, bacterial regulatory networks, their completeness and
system-level characterization.

Escorcia-Rodríguez JM(1), Tauch A(2), Freyre-González JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Regulatory Systems Biology Research Group, Laboratory of Systems and Synthetic
Biology, Center for Genomic Sciences, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México,
Av. Universidad s/n, Col. Chamilpa, 62210 Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico.
(2)Centrum für Biotechnologie (CeBiTec). Universität Bielefeld,
Universitätsstraße 27, 33615 Bielefeld, Germany.

Some organism-specific databases about regulation in bacteria have become larger,
accelerated by high-throughput methodologies, while others are no longer updated 
or accessible. Each database homogenize its datasets, giving rise to
heterogeneity across databases. Such heterogeneity mainly encompasses different
names for a gene and different network representations, generating duplicated
interactions that could bias network analyses. Abasy (Across-bacteria systems)
Atlas consolidates information from different sources into meta-curated
regulatory networks in bacteria. The high-quality networks in Abasy Atlas enable 
cross-organisms analyses, such as benchmarking studies where gold standards are
required. Nevertheless, network incompleteness still casts doubts on the
conclusions of network analyses, and available sampling methods cannot reflect
the curation process. To tackle this problem, the updated version of Abasy Atlas 
presented in this work provides historical snapshots of regulatory networks.
Thus, network analyses can be performed at different completeness levels, making 
possible to identify potential bias and to predict future results. We leverage
the recently found constraint in the complexity of regulatory networks to develop
a novel model to quantify the total number of regulatory interactions as a
function of the genome size. This completeness estimation is a valuable insight
that may aid in the daunting task of network curation, prediction, and
validation. The new version of Abasy Atlas provides 76 networks (204,282
regulatory interactions) covering 42 bacteria (64% Gram-positive and 36%
Gram-negative) distributed in 9 species (Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Bacillus
subtilis, Escherichia coli, Corynebacterium glutamicum, Staphylococcus aureus,
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and
Streptomyces coelicolor), containing 8459 regulons and 4335 modules. Database
URL: https://abasy.ccg.unam.mx/.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.csbj.2020.05.015 
PMCID: PMC7283102
PMID: 32542109 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.

