
1. FASEB Bioadv. 2020 Jul 16;2(8):506-520. doi: 10.1096/fba.2020-00029. eCollection 
2020 Aug.

Uterine infusion of bacteria alters the transcriptome of bovine oocytes.

Piersanti RL(1), Block J(1), Ma Z(1), Jeong KC(1), Santos JEP(1), Yu F(2),
Sheldon IM(3), Bromfield JJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Sciences University of Florida Gainesville FL USA.
(2)Interdisciplinary Center for Biotechnology Research University of Florida
Gainesville FL USA.
(3)Institute of Life Science Swansea University Medical School Swansea UK.

Postpartum uterine infection reduces fertility in dairy cattle; however, the
mechanisms of uterine infection-mediated infertility are unknown. Paradoxically, 
infection-induced infertility persists after the resolution of disease. Oocytes
are a finite resource, which are present at various stages of development during 
uterine infection. It is likely that oocyte development is influenced by uterine 
infection-induced changes to the follicular microenvironment. To better
understand the impact of infection on oocyte quality we employed global
transcriptomics of oocytes collected from heifers after receiving intrauterine
infusion of pathogenic Escherichia coli and Trueperella pyogenes. We hypothesized
that the oocyte transcriptome would be altered in response to intrauterine
infection. A total of 452 differentially expressed genes were identified in
oocytes collected from heifers 4 days after bacteria infusion compared to vehicle
infusion, while 539 differentially expressed genes were identified in oocytes
collected from heifers 60 days after bacteria infusion. Only 42 genes were
differentially expressed in bacteria-infused heifers at both Day 4 and Day 60.
Interferon, HMGB1, ILK, IL-6, and TGF-beta signaling pathways were downregulated 
in oocytes collected at Day 4 from bacteria-infused heifers, while interferon,
ILK, and IL-6 signaling were upregulated in oocytes collected at Day 60 from
bacteria-infused heifers. These data suggest that bacterial infusion alters the
oocyte transcriptome differently at Day 4 and Day 60, suggesting different
follicle stages are susceptible to damage. Characterizing the long-term impacts
of uterine infection on the oocyte transcriptome aids in our understanding of how
infection causes infertility in dairy cattle.

© 2020 The Authors. FASEB BioAdvances published by the Federation of American
Societies for Experimental Biology.

DOI: 10.1096/fba.2020-00029 
PMCID: PMC7429353
PMID: 32821881 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have nothing to declare.

