
1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Feb 14;10:51. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00051.
eCollection 2020.

Reviewing the Pathogenic Potential of the Otitis-Associated Bacteria Alloiococcus
otitidis and Turicella otitidis.

Lappan R(1)(2), Jamieson SE(3), Peacock CS(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)The Marshall Centre for Infectious Diseases Research and Training, School of
Biomedical Sciences, The University of Western Australia, Perth, WA, Australia.
(2)Wesfarmers Centre of Vaccines and Infectious Diseases, Telethon Kids
Institute, The University of Western Australia, Perth, WA, Australia.
(3)Telethon Kids Institute, The University of Western Australia, Perth, WA,
Australia.

Alloiococcus otitidis and Turicella otitidis are common bacteria of the human
ear. They have frequently been isolated from the middle ear of children with
otitis media (OM), though their potential role in this disease remains unclear
and confounded due to their presence as commensal inhabitants of the external
auditory canal. In this review, we summarize the current literature on these
organisms with an emphasis on their role in OM. Much of the literature focuses on
the presence and abundance of these organisms, and little work has been done to
explore their activity in the middle ear. We find there is currently insufficient
evidence available to determine whether these organisms are pathogens, commensals
or contribute indirectly to the pathogenesis of OM. However, building on the
knowledge currently available, we suggest future approaches aimed at providing
stronger evidence to determine whether A. otitidis and T. otitidis are involved
in the pathogenesis of OM. Such evidence will increase our understanding of the
microbial risk factors contributing to OM and may lead to novel treatment
approaches for severe and recurrent disease.

Copyright Â© 2020 Lappan, Jamieson and Peacock.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00051 
PMCID: PMC7033548
PMID: 32117817 

