
1. Nat Microbiol. 2019 Dec;4(12):2064-2073. doi: 10.1038/s41564-019-0540-4. Epub
2019 Sep 2.

Intestinal serotonin and fluoxetine exposure modulate bacterial colonization in
the gut.

Fung TC(1), Vuong HE(2), Luna CDG(2), Pronovost GN(2), Aleksandrova AA(3), Riley 
NG(3), Vavilina A(2), McGinn J(2), Rendon T(2), Forrest LR(3), Hsiao EY(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology and Physiology, University of California Los
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. tcfung@g.ucla.edu.
(2)Department of Integrative Biology and Physiology, University of California Los
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Computational Structural Biology Unit, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(4)Department of Integrative Biology and Physiology, University of California Los
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. ehsiao@g.ucla.edu.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2020 Jan;17(1):6-8.

The gut microbiota regulates levels of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)) in 
the intestinal epithelium and lumen1-5. However, whether 5-HT plays a functional 
role in bacteria from the gut microbiota remains unknown. We demonstrate that
elevating levels of intestinal lumenal 5-HT by oral supplementation or genetic
deficiency in the host 5-HT transporter (SERT) increases the relative abundance
of spore-forming members of the gut microbiota, which were previously reported to
promote host 5-HT biosynthesis. Within this microbial community, we identify
Turicibacter sanguinis as a gut bacterium that expresses a neurotransmitter
sodium symporter-related protein with sequence and structural homology to
mammalian SERT. T. sanguinis imports 5-HT through a mechanism that is inhibited
by the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine. 5-HT reduces the expression 
of sporulation factors and membrane transporters in T. sanguinis, which is
reversed by fluoxetine exposure. Treating T. sanguinis with 5-HT or fluoxetine
modulates its competitive colonization in the gastrointestinal tract of
antibiotic-treated mice. In addition, fluoxetine reduces the membership of T.
sanguinis in the gut microbiota of conventionally colonized mice. Host
association with T. sanguinis alters intestinal expression of multiple gene
pathways, including those important for lipid and steroid metabolism, with
corresponding reductions in host systemic triglyceride levels and inguinal
adipocyte size. Together, these findings support the notion that select bacteria 
indigenous to the gut microbiota signal bidirectionally with the host
serotonergic system to promote their fitness in the intestine.

DOI: 10.1038/s41564-019-0540-4 
PMCID: PMC6879823
PMID: 31477894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

