
1. BMC Ophthalmol. 2020 Apr 10;20(1):142. doi: 10.1186/s12886-020-01412-1.

Post-intravitreal injection endophthalmitis secondary to Turicella otitidis: a
case report.

Mammo DA(1), Watson D(1), Armbrust KR(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Neurosciences, University of Minnesota,
420 Delaware Street Southeast, MMC 493, Minneapolis, MN, 55455, USA.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Neurosciences, University of Minnesota,
420 Delaware Street Southeast, MMC 493, Minneapolis, MN, 55455, USA.
karen.armbrust@va.gov.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Veterans Affairs Health Care System, Minneapolis,
MN, USA. karen.armbrust@va.gov.

BACKGROUND: Endophthalmitis is a rare but potentially devastating complication of
intravitreal injection. The causative organism plays an important role in
prognosis following endophthalmitis. Here we present the first reported case of
Turicella otitidis endophthalmitis, which is notable for a delayed presentation.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 71â€‰year old male who was receiving intravitreal aflibercept 
injections for neovascular age-related macular degeneration presented 4 weeks
after his most recent intravitreal injection and was found to have
endophthalmitis. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing of aqueous fluid was
positive for Turicella otitidis. The endophthalmitis responded well to treatment 
with intravitreal antibiotics.
CONCLUSIONS: Coryneform bacteria are a rare cause of endophthalmitis, and this is
the first reported case of endophthalmitis caused by the corynebacterium species 
Turicella otitidis. As in this case, post-intravitreal injection endophthalmitis 
may have a bacterial etiology even with delayed presentation. The relatively
indolent disease course and excellent response to intravitreal antibiotics is
consistent with previous ophthalmic reports regarding other corynebacteria, as
well as with otolaryngology and hematology oncology reports addressing Turicella 
otitidis specifically. This case supports the growing body of evidence for
pathogenicity of Turicella otitidis and demonstrates the utility of PCR for
diagnosis in small volume aqueous specimens.

DOI: 10.1186/s12886-020-01412-1 
PMCID: PMC7146956
PMID: 32276621 

