
1. Microbiol Res. 2020 Aug 17;241:126579. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126579. [Epub
ahead of print]

Diversity of bacterial endophyte in Eucalyptus clones and their implications in
water stress tolerance.

Dasgupta MG(1), Burragoni S(2), Amrutha S(3), Muthupandi M(3), Parveen ABM(3),
Sivakumar V(3), Ulaganathan K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding, R.S. Puram, Coimbatore,
641002, India. Electronic address: gmodhumita@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan, Gyeongbuk, 38541,
Republic of Korea.
(3)Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding, R.S. Puram, Coimbatore,
641002, India.
(4)Centre for Plant Molecular Biology, Osmania University, Hyderabad, 500007,
India.

The genus Eucalyptus with over 747 species occurs in wide ecological range and is
preferred for bioenergy plantations due to their short rotation, rapid growth and
superior wood properties. They are planted in 22 million ha area and India is
third largest planter of Eucalyptus. In the present study, the bacterial
endophyte community in leaves of six Eucalyptus clones belonging to E.
tereticornis and E. camaldulensis was assessed by sequencing the V3-V4 region of 
the bacterial 16S rRNA gene. The clones were selected based on their response to 
progressive water stress. A total of 4947 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were
obtained and the dominant phyla were Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes and
Firmicutes. Escherichia coli was enriched in all samples at species level.
Comparison of endophyte diversity was conducted between the two species and
across the water stress tolerant and susceptible clones. The alpha-diversity
analysis revealed that species richness and diversity was high in E.
camaldulensis and water stress susceptible clones. LefSe analysis predicted 69
and 54 significantly enriched taxonomic biomarkers between species and stress
response groups respectively. A maximum of 49 taxonomic biomarkers were recorded 
in susceptible group and the significantly enriched species were Bacteroides
thetaiotaomicron and Turicibacter sanguinis, while the tolerant group documented 
5 biomarkers including oscillibacter sp. The presence of functional biomarkers
was also assessed in both the groups. The findings of the present study provides 
an insight into the diversity of bacterial endophyte in Eucalyptus leaves and to 
our knowledge this is the first report on documenting the endophyte abundance in 
water stress responsive Eucalyptus clones.

Copyright Â© 2020. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126579 
PMID: 32861101 

