
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Apr;70(4):2493-2498. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004061.
Epub 2020 Mar 20.

Vagococcus xieshaowenii sp. nov., isolated from snow finch (Montifringilla
taczanowskii) cloacal content.

Ge Y(1), Yang J(2)(3)(1), Lai XH(4), Zhang G(3), Jin D(2)(3)(1), Lu S(2)(3)(1),
Wang B(5), Huang Y(3), Huang Y(3), Ren Z(3), Zhang X(1), Xu J(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center, Fudan University, Shanghai 201508, PR 
China.
(2)Research Units of Discovery of Unknown Bacteria and Function, Chinese Academy 
of Medical Sciences, Beijing 100730, PR China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Infectious Disease Prevention and Control,
Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious
Diseases, National Institute for Communicable Disease Control and Prevention,
Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Changping, Beijing 102206, PR 
China.
(4)Henan Key Laboratory of Biomolecular Recognition and Sensing, College of
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Henan Joint International Research Laboratory
of Chemo/Biosensing and Early Diagnosis of Major Diseases, Shangqiu Normal
University, Shangqiu 476000, PR China.
(5)Guizhou Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Guiyang 550000, PR China.

A Gram-stain-positive, coccus-shaped, non-motile bacterium, designated CF-49T,
was isolated from the cloacal content of a snow finch, which was incidentally
captured in a plateau pika burrow on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, PR China.
Analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequence showed that strain CF-49T was closely
related to Vagococcus elongatus CCUG 51432T (96.5 % similarity), Vagococcus
fluvialis NCFB 2497T (96.0 %) and Vagococcus lutrae CCUG 39187T (95.9 %), whereas
the similarity to another isolate (CF-210) was 99.9 %. Strains CF-49T and CF-210 
grew optimally at 37 °C and pH 7.0 and in the presence of 0.5 % (w/v) NaCl. Acid 
was produced from N-acetylglucosamine, cellobiose, d-fructose, d-glucose,
d-mannose, d-mannitol, maltose, d-ribose and salicin. The cell-wall peptidoglycan
type was A4α (l-Lys-d-Asp). The major cellular fatty acids (>10 %) were C16 : 0
(35.6 %), C14 : 0 (17.3 %), C18 : 1 ω9c (16.2 %) and C16 : 1 ω9c (10.6 %). The
predominant respiratory quinone was menaquinone MK-7 (68.8 %). The G+C content of
the genomic DNA was 35.9 mol%. Digital DNA-DNA hybridization of strain CF-49T
with V. fluvialis DSM 5731T, V. elongatus CCUG 51432Tand V. lutrae CCUG 39187T
resulted in relatedness values of 21.4, 23.3 and 24.6 %, respectively. Based on
results from polyphasic analyses, our two isolates are proposed to represent a
novel species in the genus Vagococcus, with the name Vagococcus xieshaowenii. The
type strain is CF-49T (=CGMCC 1.6436T=GDMCC 1.1588T=JCM 33477T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004061 
PMID: 32195646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

