
1. J Food Sci Technol. 2019 Dec;56(12):5326-5335. doi: 10.1007/s13197-019-04003-1.
Epub 2019 Aug 8.

Finding a common core microbiota in two Brazilian dairies through culture and DNA
metabarcoding studies.

Frazilio DA(1), de Almeida OGG(1), Niño-Arias FC(1), De Martinis ECP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Ciências Farmacêuticas de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São
Paulo, Avenida do Café s/n, Monte Alegre, Ribeirão Prêto, São Paulo 14040-903
Brazil.

Dairy foods are complex ecosystems composed of microorganisms from different
origins that can affect flavor and safety of final products. The objective of
this paper is to assess the in-house microbiota of two Brazilian dairies and to
discuss the possible implications of the taxa determined for food protection. In 
total, 27 samples from dairies were cultured in selective (Baird Parker, de Man, 
Rogosa and Sharpe) and non-selective (Brain Heart Infusion) media, and the
isolates were identified by Sanger sequencing. Moreover, metagenomic DNA was
directly extracted from samples and the structure of the bacterial community was 
determined by massive DNA sequencing followed by bioinformatics analyses. The
results showed the majority of isolates belonged to the group of lactic acid
bacteria, but Enterobacteriaceae, Staphylococcacceae, Bacillaceae,
Pseudomonadaceae and Moraxellaceae were also detected. From the reads obtained in
metataxonomics analyses, a heatmap was constructed and the top 20 OTUs
(operational taxonomic units) were determined. Besides, 12 most prevalent
bacterial taxa were assigned to the core microbiota of the dairies evaluated,
which included Thiomonas thermosulfata, Alkalibacillus salilacus, Pseudomonas
clemancea, Erythrobacter aquimans, Tetragenococcus doogicus, Macrococcus
brunensis, Pseudomonas ludensis, Streptococcus dentinousetti, Serratia
entomophila, Vagococcus teuberi, Lactococcus fujiensis and Tolumonas auensis. In 
conclusion, the results reveal the presence of bacteria that may be related to
spoilage and also foodborne diseases, in microbial niches that also present rare 
taxa, highlighting the importance to consider culture-independent results to
evaluate and improve food safety.

© Association of Food Scientists & Technologists (India) 2019.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-019-04003-1 
PMCID: PMC6838242 [Available on 2020-12-01]
PMID: 31749480 

