
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jan 21;10:3103. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.03103. eCollection 
2019.

Salmon Gravlax Biopreservation With Lactic Acid Bacteria: A Polyphasic Approach
to Assessing the Impact on Organoleptic Properties, Microbial Ecosystem and
Volatilome Composition.

Wiernasz N(1)(2), Leroi F(1), Chevalier F(1), Cornet J(1), Cardinal M(1), Rohloff
J(3), Passerini D(1), Skırnisdóttir S(4), Pilet MF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Ecosystèmes Microbiens et Molécules Marines pour les
Biotechnologies (EM3B), Ifremer, Nantes, France.
(2)UMR 1014 SECALIM, INRA, Oniris, Nantes, France.
(3)NTNU, Department of Biology, Norwegian University of Science and Technology,
Trondheim, Norway.
(4)Matıs, Research and Innovation, Exploitation and Utilization of Genetic
Resources, Reykjavik, Iceland.

Seafood and fishery products are very perishable commodities with short
shelf-lives owing to rapid deterioration of their organoleptic and
microbiological quality. Microbial growth and activity are responsible for up to 
25% of food losses in the fishery industry. In this context and to meet consumer 
demand for minimally processed food, developing mild preservation technologies
such as biopreservation represents a major challenge. In this work, we studied
the use of six lactic acid bacteria (LAB), previously selected for their
properties as bioprotective agents, for salmon dill gravlax biopreservation.
Naturally contaminated salmon dill gravlax slices, with a commercial shelf-life
of 21 days, were purchased from a French industrial company and inoculated by
spraying with the protective cultures (PCs) to reach an initial concentration of 
106 log CFU/g. PC impact on gravlax microbial ecosystem (cultural and acultural
methods), sensory properties (sensory profiling test), biochemical parameters
(pH, TMA, TVBN, biogenic amines) and volatilome was followed for 25 days of
storage at 8°C in vacuum packaging. PC antimicrobial activity was also assessed
in situ against Listeria monocytogenes. This polyphasic approach underlined two
scenarios depending on the protective strain. Carnobacterium maltaromaticum
SF1944, Lactococcus piscium EU2229 and Leuconostoc gelidum EU2249, were very
competitive in the product, dominated the microbial ecosystem, and displayed
antimicrobial activity against the spoilage microbiota and L. monocytogenes. The 
strains also expressed their own sensory and volatilome signatures. However, of
these three strains, C. maltaromaticum SF1944 did not induce strong spoilage and 
was the most efficient for L. monocytogenes growth control. By contrast,
Vagococcus fluvialis CD264, Carnobacterium inhibens MIP2551 and Aerococcus
viridans SF1044 were not competitive, did not express strong antimicrobial
activity and produced only few organic volatile compounds (VOCs). However, V.
fluvialis CD264 was the only strain to extend the sensory quality, even beyond 25
days. This study shows that C. maltaromaticum SF1944 and V. fluvialis CD264 both 
have a promising potential as bioprotective cultures to ensure salmon gravlax
microbial safety and sensorial quality, respectively.

Copyright © 2020 Wiernasz, Leroi, Chevalier, Cornet, Cardinal, Rohloff,
Passerini, Skırnisdóttir and Pilet.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.03103 
PMCID: PMC6986196
PMID: 32038547 

