
1. J Dent Res. 2020 Jun;99(6):703-712. doi: 10.1177/0022034520908595. Epub 2020 Feb 
28.

Sex-Based Diverse Plaque Microbiota in Children with Severe Caries.

de Jesus VC(1)(2), Shikder R(2)(3)(4), Oryniak D(1)(2), Mann K(1)(2)(5), Alamri
A(1)(2), Mittermuller B(1)(2)(5), Duan K(1)(2), Hu P(2)(3)(4), Schroth
RJ(1)(2)(5)(6), Chelikani P(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Manitoba Chemosensory Biology Research Group and Department of Oral Biology,
Dr. Gerald Niznick College of Dentistry, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences,
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada.
(2)Children's Hospital Research Institute of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Medical Genetics, Max Rady College of Medicine,
Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada.
(4)Department of Computer Science, Faculty of Sciences, University of Manitoba,
Winnipeg, MB, Canada.
(5)Department of Preventive Dental Science, Dr. Gerald Niznick College of
Dentistry, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB,
Canada.
(6)Department of Pediatrics and Child Health, Max Rady College of Medicine, Rady 
Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada.

Severe early childhood caries (S-ECC) is a multifactorial disease that can lead
to suffering and reduced oral health-related quality of life in young children.
The bacterial and fungal composition of dental plaque and how children's sex is
associated with S-ECC are largely unknown. In this study, V4-16S rRNA and ITS1
rRNA gene amplicon sequencing was used to compare the plaque bacteriome and
mycobiome of children <72 mo of age: 40 with S-ECC (15 males, 25 females) and 40 
caries-free (19 males, 21 females). Health- and nutrition-related questionnaire
data were also investigated. This study aimed to analyze potential sex-based
differences in the supragingival plaque microbiota of young children with S-ECC
and those caries-free. Behavioral and nutritional habit differences were observed
between children with S-ECC and those caries-free and between male and female
children. Overall, higher levels of Veillonella dispar, Streptococcus mutans, and
other bacterial species were found in the S-ECC group as compared with
caries-free controls (P < 0.05). A significant difference in the abundance of
Neisseria was observed between males and females with S-ECC (P < .05). Fungal
taxonomic analysis showed significantly higher levels of Candida dubliniensis in 
the plaque of children with S-ECC as compared with those caries-free (P < 0.05), 
but no differences were observed with Candida albicans (P > 0.05). Significant
differences in the relative abundance of Mycosphaerella, Cyberlindnera, and
Trichosporon fungal species were also observed between the caries-free and S-ECC 
groups (P < 0.05). Machine learning analysis revealed the most important
bacterial and fungal species for classifying S-ECC versus caries-free. Different 
patterns of crosstalk between microbial species were observed between male and
female children. Our work demonstrates that plaque microbiota and sex may be
important determinants for S-ECC and could be factors to consider for inclusion
in caries risk assessment tools.

DOI: 10.1177/0022034520908595 
PMID: 32109360 

