
1. Cell Microbiol. 2020 Aug;22(8):e13209. doi: 10.1111/cmi.13209. Epub 2020 May 14.

Early host-microbe interaction in a peri-implant oral mucosa-biofilm model.

Mikolai C(1), Kommerein N(1), Ingendoh-Tsakmakidis A(1), Winkel A(1), Falk CS(2),
Stiesch M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry and Biomedical Materials Science, Hannover 
Medical School, Hannover, Germany.
(2)Institute of Transplant Immunology, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany.

The host-microbe relationship is pivotal for oral health as well as for
peri-implant diseases. Peri-implant mucosa and commensal biofilm play important
roles in the maintenance of host-microbe homeostasis, but little is known about
how they interact. We have therefore investigated the early host-microbe
interaction between commensal multispecies biofilm (Streptococcus oralis,
Actinomyces naeslundii, Veillonella dispar, Porphyromonas gingivalis) and
organotypic peri-implant mucosa using our three-dimensional model. After 24 hr,
biofilms induced weak inflammatory reaction in the peri-implant mucosa by
upregulation of five genes related to immune response and increased secretion of 
IL-6 and CCL20. Biofilm volume was reduced which might be explained by secretion 
of β-Defensins-1, -2, and CCL20. The specific tissue reaction without intrinsic
overreaction might contribute to intact mucosa. Thus, a relationship similar to
homeostasis and oral health was established within the first 24 hr. In contrast, 
the mucosa was damaged and the bacterial distribution was altered after 48 hr.
These were accompanied by an enhanced immune response with upregulation of
additional inflammatory-related genes and increased cytokine secretion. Thus, the
homeostasis-like relationship was disrupted. Such profound knowledge of the
host-microbe interaction at the peri-implant site may provide the basis to
improve strategies for prevention and therapy of peri-implant diseases.

© 2020 The Authors. Cellular Microbiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cmi.13209 
PMID: 32329166 

