
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Jun 23;11:1219. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01219. eCollection 
2020.

Comparative Genomics Uncovers the Genetic Diversity and Characters of Veillonella
atypica and Provides Insights Into Its Potential Applications.

Han M(1), Liu G(1), Chen Y(2), Wang D(2), Zhang Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Hefei Normal University, Hefei, China.

Veillonella atypica is a bacterium that is present in the gut and the oral cavity
of mammals and plays diverse roles in different niches. A recent study
demonstrated that Veillonella is highly associated with marathon running and
approved that V. atypica gavage improves treadmill run time in mice, revealing
that V. atypica has a high biotechnological potential in improving athlete
performance. However, a comprehensive analysis of the genetic diversity, function
traits, and genome editing method of V. atypica remains elusive. In the present
study, we conducted a systemically comparative analysis of the genetic datasets
of nine V. atypica strains. The pan-genome of V. atypica consisted of 2,065
homologous clusters and exhibited an open pan-genome structure. A phylogenetic
analysis of V. atypica with two different categories revealed that V. atypica OK5
was the most distant from the other eight V. atypica strains. A total of 43
orthologous genes were identified as CAZyme genes and grouped into 23 CAZyme
families. The CAZyme components derived from accessory clusters contributed to
the differences in the ability of the nine V. atypica strains to utilize
carbohydrates. An integrated analysis of the metabolic pathways of V. atypica
suggested that V. atypica strains harbored vancomycin resistance and were
involved in several biosynthesis pathways of secondary metabolites. The V.
atypica strains harbored four main Cas proteins, namely, CAS-Type IIIA, CAS-Type 
IIA, CAS-Type IIC, and CAS-Type IIID. This pilot study provides an in-depth
understanding of and a fundamental knowledge about the biology of V. atypica that
allow the possibility to increase the biotechnological potential of this
bacterium.

Copyright Â© 2020 Han, Liu, Chen, Wang and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01219 
PMCID: PMC7324755
PMID: 32655519 

