
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Jun 26;8(6). pii: E959. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8060959.

Clinical Detection of Chronic Rhinosinusitis through Next-Generation Sequencing
of the Oral Microbiota.

Yuan BC(1), Yeh YT(2)(3)(4), Lin CC(2)(3), Huang CH(5), Liu HC(6), Chiang
CP(3)(7)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Fooyin University Hospital, Pingtung 92849,
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Education and Research, Fooyin University Hospital, Pingtung
92849, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences and Biotechnology, Fooyin
University, Kaohsiung 83102, Taiwan.
(4)Aging and Disease Prevention Research Center, Fooyin University, Kaohsiung
83102, Taiwan.
(5)Program in Environmental and Occupational Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical
University, Kaohsiung 80708, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Fooyin University Hospital, Pingtung 92849,
Taiwan.
(7)Department of Surgery, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 80756,
Taiwan.
(8)Division of Breast Surgery, Department of Surgery, Kaohsiung Medical
University Hospital, Kaohsiung 80756, Taiwan.

Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is the chronic inflammation of the sinus cavities of
the upper respiratory tract, which can be caused by a disrupted microbiome.
However, the role of the oral microbiome in CRS is not well understood.
Polymicrobial and anaerobic infections of CRS frequently increased the difficulty
of cultured and antibiotic therapy. This study aimed to elucidate the patterns
and clinical feasibility of the oral microbiome in CRS diagnosis. Matched saliva 
and nasal swabs were collected from 18 CRS patients and 37 saliva specimens from 
normal volunteers were collected for 16S rRNA sequencing. The α-diversity of the 
saliva displayed no significant difference between control and CRS patients,
whereas the β-diversity was significantly different (p = 0.004). Taxonomic
indices demonstrated that Veillonella dispar, Rothia mucilaginosa, and
Porphyromonas endodontalis were enriched, while Campylobacter and Cardiobacterium
were reduced in the saliva of CRS patients. These microbial markers could
significantly distinguish CRS patients from control (AUC = 0.939). It is noted
that the 16S rRNA results of the nasal swab were consistent with the nasopharynx 
aerobic culture, and additionally detected multiple pathogens in CRS patients. In
summary, these results indicated these oral microbiomes may provide a novel
signal for CRS detection and that NGS may be an alternative approach for CRS
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8060959 
PMCID: PMC7356624
PMID: 32604855 

