
1. Nutrients. 2020 Sep 14;12(9). pii: E2812. doi: 10.3390/nu12092812.

Antimicrobial Activity of EPA and DHA against Oral Pathogenic Bacteria Using an
In Vitro Multi-Species Subgingival Biofilm Model.

Ribeiro-Vidal H(1), Sánchez MC(1)(2), Alonso-Español A(1), Figuero E(1), Ciudad
MJ(2), Collado L(2), Herrera D(1), Sanz M(1).

Author information: 
(1)ETEP (Etiology and Therapy of Periodontal and Peri-implant Diseases) Research 
Group, University Complutense of Madrid, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Medicine Department, Faculty of Medicine, University Complutense of Madrid,
28040 Madrid, Spain.

In search for natural products with antimicrobial properties for use in the
prevention and treatment of periodontitis, the purpose of this investigation was 
to evaluate the antimicrobial activity of two omega-3 fatty acids,
docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), using an in vitro
multi-species subgingival biofilm model including Streptococcus oralis,
Actinomyces naeslundii, Veillonella parvula, Fusobacterium nucleatum,
Porphyromonas gingivalis, and Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans. The
antimicrobial activities of EPA and DHA extracts (100 µM) and the respective
controls were assessed on 72 h biofilms by their submersion onto discs for 60 s. 
Antimicrobial activity was evaluated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction
(qPCR), confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) and scanning electron
microscopy (SEM). ANOVA with Bonferroni correction was used to evaluate the
antimicrobial activity of each of the fatty acids. Both DHA and EPA significantly
reduced (p < 0.001 in all cases) the bacterial strains used in this biofilm
model. The results with CLSM were consistent with those reported with qPCR.
Structural damage was evidenced by SEM in some of the observed bacteria. It was
concluded that both DHA and EPA have significant antimicrobial activity against
the six bacterial species included in this biofilm model.

DOI: 10.3390/nu12092812 
PMID: 32937742 

