
1. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Sep 17;17(18). pii: E6781. doi:
10.3390/ijerph17186781.

The Impact of Water Intrusion on Pathogenic Vibrio Species to Inland Brackish
Waters of China.

Wang Q(1)(2), Fu S(1)(2), Yang Q(3), Hao J(1)(2), Zhou C(1)(2), Liu Y(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Marine Technology and Environment, Dalian Ocean University, Dalian 
116023, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Environment Controlled Aquaculture (KLECA), Ministry of
Education, Dalian 116023, China.
(3)Center for Microbial Ecology and Technology (CMET), Ghent University, Coupure 
Links 653, 9000 Gent, Belgium.

The estuary is the ecological niche of pathogenic Vibrio spp. as it provides
abundant organic and inorganic nutrients from seawater and rivers. However,
little is known about the ecology of these Vibrio species in the inland brackish 
water area. In this study, their co-occurrence and relationships to key
environmental constraints (salinity and temperature) in the Hun-Tai River of
China were examined using the most probable number polymerase chain reaction
(MPN-PCR) approach. We hereby report 2-year continuous surveillance based on six 
water indices of the Hun-Tai River. The results showed that seawater intrusion
maximally reached inland as far as 26.5 km for the Hun-Tai River. Pathogenic
Vibrio spp. were detected in 21.9% of the water samples. In particular, V.
cholerae, V. parahaemolyticus, and V. vulnificus were isolated in 10 (10.4%), 20 
(20.8.5%), and 2 (2.08%) samples, respectively. All V. parahaemolyticus strains
were tdh gene negative, 10% were positive for the trh gene. Multi-locus sequence 
typing (MLST) divided V. parahaemolyticus strains into 12 sequence types (STs)
for the Hun-Tai River. Five STs were respectively present in various locations
along the Hun-Tai River. The PCR assay for detecting six virulence genes and
Vibrio seventh pandemic island I and II revealed three genotypes in 12 V.
cholerae isolates. The results of our study showed that seawater intrusion and
salinity have profound effects on the distribution of pathogenic Vibrio spp. in
the inland river, suggesting a potential health risk associated with the waters
of the Hun-Tai River used for irrigation and drinking.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17186781 
PMID: 32957572 

