
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 Aug 26;11:1838. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01838. eCollection 
2020.

Virulence Pattern and Genomic Diversity of Vibrio cholerae O1 and O139 Strains
Isolated From Clinical and Environmental Sources in India.

Kanampalliwar A(1), Singh DV(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Disease Biology, Institute of Life Sciences,
Bhubaneswar, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, School of Earth, Biological and Environmental
Sciences, Central University of South Bihar, Gaya, India.

Vibrio cholerae is an autochthonous inhabitant of the aquatic environment.
Several molecular methods have been used for typing V. cholerae strains, but
there is no proper database for such scheme, including multilocus sequence typing
(MLST) for V. cholerae O1 and O139 strains. We used 54 V. cholerae O1 and three
O139 strains isolated from clinical and environmental sources and regions of
India during the time period of 1975-2015 to determine the presence of virulence 
genes and production of biofilm. We devised a MLST scheme and developed a
database for typing V. cholerae strains. Also, we performed pulsed-field gel
electrophoresis to see the genomic diversity among them and compared it with
MLST. We used the MEGA 7.0 software for the alignment and comparison of different
nucleotide sequences. The advanced cluster analysis was performed to define
complexes. All strains of V. cholerae, except five strains, showed variation in
phenotypic characteristics but carried virulence-associated genes indicating they
belonged to the El Tor/hybrid/O139 variants. MLST analysis showed 455 sequences
types among V. cholerae strains, irrespective of sources and places of isolation.
With these findings, we set up an MLST database on PubMLST.org using the BIGSdb
software for V. cholerae O1 and O139 strains, which is available at
https://pubmlst.org/vcholerae/ under the O1/O139 scheme. The pulsed-field gel
electrophoresis (PFGE) fingerprint showed six fingerprint patterns namely E, F,
G, H, I, and J clusters among 33 strains including strain N16961 carrying El Tor 
ctxB of which cluster J representing O139 strain was entirely different from
other El Tor strains. Twenty strains carrying Haitian ctxB showed a fingerprint
pattern classified as cluster A. Of the five strains, four carrying classical
ctxB comprising two each of El Tor and O139 strains and one El Tor strain
carrying Haitian ctxB clustered together under cluster B along with V. cholerae
569B showing pattern D. This study thus indicates that V. cholerae strains are
undergoing continuous genetic changes leading to the emergence of new strains.
The MLST scheme was found more appropriate compared to PFGE that can be used to
determine the genomic diversity and population structure of V. cholerae.

Copyright Â© 2020 Kanampalliwar and Singh.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.01838 
PMCID: PMC7479179
PMID: 32982995 

