
1. Sci Rep. 2020 Sep 21;10(1):15398. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-72387-8.

A modular chromosomally integrated toolkit for ectopic gene expression in Vibrio 
cholerae.

Dalia TN(1), Chlebek JL(1), Dalia AB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN, 47405, USA.
(2)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN, 47405, USA.
ankdalia@indiana.edu.

The ability to express genes ectopically in bacteria is essential for diverse
academic and industrial applications. Two major considerations when utilizing
regulated promoter systems for ectopic gene expression are (1) the ability to
titrate gene expression by addition of an exogenous inducer and (2) the leakiness
of the promoter element in the absence of the inducer. Here, we describe a
modular chromosomally integrated platform for ectopic gene expression in Vibrio
cholerae. We compare the broadly used promoter elements Ptac and PBAD to versions
that have an additional theophylline-responsive riboswitch (Ptac-riboswitch and
PBAD-riboswitch). These constructs all exhibited unimodal titratable induction of
gene expression, however, max induction varied with
Ptac > PBAD > PBAD-riboswitch > Ptac-riboswitch. We also developed a sensitive
reporter system to quantify promoter leakiness and show that leakiness for
Ptac > Ptac-riboswitch > PBAD; while the newly developed PBAD-riboswitch
exhibited no detectable leakiness. We demonstrate the utility of the tightly
inducible PBAD-riboswitch construct using the dynamic activity of type IV
competence pili in V. cholerae as a model system. The modular chromosomally
integrated toolkit for ectopic gene expression described here should be valuable 
for the genetic study of V. cholerae and could be adapted for use in other
species.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-72387-8 
PMCID: PMC7505983
PMID: 32958839 

