
1. Iran J Microbiol. 2020 Aug;12(4):263-272. doi: 10.18502/ijm.v12i4.3928.

Aptamer-nanobody based ELASA for detection of Vibrio cholerae O1.

Mojarad AE(1), Gargaria SLM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Shahed University, Tehran, Iran.

Background and Objectives: In recent years, the prevalence of diseases caused by 
Vibrio spp. is increasing in the world, and among them species, Vibrio cholerae
is the most important Vibrio associated with pandemic and epidemic cholera
outbreaks. Therefore, the development of a reliable method for early and accurate
detection of V. cholerae for management of diseases is a real need. Aptamers with
the ability to detect targets with high specificity and accuracy can be one of
the candidates used for the whole cell and thereby V. cholerae detection.
Materials and Methods: In this research high-affinity DNA aptamers against with
two major serotypes of Inaba (ATCC 39315) and Ogawa (clinical sample) were
selected from DNA aptamer library through 12 rounds of Systematic Evolution of
Ligands by Exponential (SELEX) enrichment procedure using live cells as a target 
which monitored with flow cytometry.
Results: The binding efficiency and dissociation constant of the isolated
aptamers V.ch47 and V.ch27 were 56.4%, 53.3% and 15.404 ± 4.776 pM, 20.186 ±
3.655 pM, respectively. A sandwich Enzyme-linked aptamer sorbent assay (ELASA)
was developed with the biotinylated V.ch47 aptamer and our previously developed
nanobody anti-Lipopolysaccharides (LPS). We optimized this system with V.
cholerae O1 and analyzed their cross reactivity with close physiological
bacteria. The threshold of detection was obtained 104 CFU/ml in the sandwich
ELASA process.
Conclusion: Our results showed that the sandwich ELASA is sensitive enough for
the rapid detection of V. cholerae from other bacteria.

Copyright© 2020 Iranian Society of Microbiology & Tehran University of Medical
Sciences.

DOI: 10.18502/ijm.v12i4.3928 
PMCID: PMC7502147
PMID: 32994896 

