
1. Int J Hyg Environ Health. 2020 Sep 15;230:113619. doi:
10.1016/j.ijheh.2020.113619. [Epub ahead of print]

Pathogen flows from on-site sanitation systems in low-income urban neighborhoods,
Dhaka: A quantitative environmental assessment.

Amin N(1), Liu P(2), Foster T(3), Rahman M(4), Miah MR(4), Ahmed GB(4), Kabir
M(4), Raj S(2), Moe CL(2), Willetts J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Infectious Disease Division, International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease
Research, Bangladesh (icddr,b), Dhaka, Bangladesh. Electronic address:
nuhu.amin@icddrb.org.
(2)Center for Global Safe Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene, Emory University,
Atlanta, GA, USA.
(3)Institute for Sustainable Futures, University of Technology Sydney, 235 Jones 
St, Ultimo, NSW, 2007, Australia.
(4)Infectious Disease Division, International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease
Research, Bangladesh (icddr,b), Dhaka, Bangladesh.

BACKGROUND: Despite wide usage of on-site sanitation, there is limited
field-based evidence on the removal or release of pathogens from septic tanks and
other primary treatment systems, such as anaerobic baffled reactors (ABR). In two
low-income areas in Dhaka, we conducted a cross-sectional study to explore
pathogen loads discharged from commonly used on-site sanitation-systems and their
transport in nearby drains and waterways.
METHODS: We collected samples of drain water, drain sediment, canal water, and
floodwater from April-October 2019. Sludge, supernatant, and effluent samples
were also collected from septic tanks and ABRs. We investigated the presence and 
concentration of selected enteric pathogens (Shigella, Vibrio cholerae (V.
cholerae), Salmonella Typhi (S. Typhi), Norovirus Genogroup-II (NoV-GII), and
Giardia) and presence of Cryptosporidium in these samples using quantitative
polymerase chain reaction (qPCR).The equivalent genome copies (EGC) of individual
pathogens were estimated in each sample by interpolation of the mean Ct value to 
the corresponding standard curve and the dilution factor for each sample type.
Absolute quantification was expressed as log10 EGC per 100 mL for the water
samples and log10 EGC per gram for the sediment samples.
RESULTS: Among all samples tested (N = 151), 89% were contaminated with Shigella,
68% with V. cholerae and NoV-GII, 32% with Giardia, 17% with S. Typhi and 6% with
Cryptosporidium. A wide range of concentration of pathogens [range: mean log10
concentration of Giardia = 0.74 EGC/100 mL in drain ultrafiltration samples to
mean log10 concentration of NoV-GII and Giardia = 7.11 EGC/100 mL in ABR sludge] 
was found in all environmental samples. The highest pathogen concentrations were 
detected in open drains [range: mean log10 concentration = 2.50-4.94 EGC/100 mL],
septic tank effluent [range: mean log10 concentration = 3.32-4.65 EGC/100 mL],
and ABR effluent [range: mean log10 concentration = 2.72-5.13 EGC/100 mL].
CONCLUSIONS: High concentrations of pathogens (particularly NoV-GII, V.cholerae
and Shigella) were frequently detected in environmental samples from two
low-income urban neighbourhoods of Dhaka city. The numerous environmental
exposure pathways for children and adults make these findings of public health
concern. These results should prompt rethinking of how to achieve safe sanitation
solutions that protect public health in dense low-income areas. In particular,
improved management and maintenance regimes, further treatment of liquid effluent
from primary treatment processes, and appropriate application of onsite,
decentralised and offsite sanitation systems given the local context.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijheh.2020.113619 
PMID: 32942223 

