
1. Molecules. 2020 Feb 9;25(3). pii: E744. doi: 10.3390/molecules25030744.

Identification and Characterization of Nnematicidal Volatile Organic Compounds
from Deep-Sea Virgibacillus dokdonensis MCCC 1A00493.

Huang D(1), Yu C(1), Shao Z(2), Cai M(1), Li G(2), Zheng L(1), Yu Z(1), Zhang
J(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Agricultural Microbiology, National Engineering
Research Center of Microbe Pesticides, College of Life Science and Technology,
Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan 430070, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Marine Biogenetic Resources, Third Institute of
Oceanography, Ministry of Natural Resources, Xiamen 361005, China.

Root-knot nematode diseases cause severe yield and economic losses each year in
global agricultural production. Virgibacillus dokdonensis MCCC 1A00493, a
deep-sea bacterium, shows a significant nematicidal activity against Meloidogyne 
incognita in vitro. However, information about the active substances of V.
dokdonensis MCCC 1A00493 is limited. In this study, volatile organic compounds
(VOCs) from V. dokdonensis MCCC 1A00493 were isolated and analyzed through
solid-phase microextraction and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Four VOCs, 
namely, acetaldehyde, dimethyl disulfide, ethylbenzene, and 2-butanone, were
identified, and their nematicidal activities were evaluated. The four VOCs had a 
variety of active modes on M. incognita juveniles. Acetaldehyde had direct
contact killing, fumigation, and attraction activities; dimethyl disulfide had
direct contact killing and attraction activities; ethylbenzene had an attraction 
activity; and 2-butanone had a repellent activity. Only acetaldehyde had a
fumigant activity to inhibit egg hatching. Combining this fumigant activity
against eggs and juveniles could be an effective strategy to control the
different developmental stages of M. incognita. The combination of direct contact
and attraction activities could also establish trapping and killing strategies
against root-knot nematodes. Considering all nematicidal modes or strategies, we 
could use V. dokdonensis MCCC 1A00493 to set up an integrated strategy to control
root-knot nematodes.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25030744 
PMCID: PMC7037310
PMID: 32050419 

