
1. Biomed Res Int. 2019 Nov 30;2019:6470897. doi: 10.1155/2019/6470897. eCollection 
2019.

Identification of a New Serine Alkaline Peptidase from the Moderately Halophilic 
Virgibacillus natechei sp. nov., Strain FarDT and its Application as Bioadditive 
for Peptide Synthesis and Laundry Detergent Formulations.

Mechri S(1), Bouacem K(1)(2), Amziane M(2), Dab A(1), Nateche F(2), Jaouadi
B(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Microbial Biotechnology and Engineering Enzymes (LMBEE), Centre 
of Biotechnology of Sfax (CBS), University of Sfax, Road of Sidi Mansour Km 6,
P.O. Box 1177, Sfax 3018, Tunisia.
(2)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Biology (LCMB), Microbiology Team,
Faculty of Biological Sciences, University of Sciences and Technology of Houari
Boumediene (USTHB), P.O. Box 32, El Alia, Bab Ezzouar, 16111 Algiers, Algeria.
(3)Biotech ECOZYM Start-up, Business Incubator, Centre of Biotechnology of Sfax
(CBS), University of Sfax, Road of Sidi Mansour Km 6, P.O. Box 1177, Sfax 3018,
Tunisia.

A new peptidase designated as SAPV produced from a moderately halophilic
Virgibacillus natechei sp. nov., strain FarDT was investigated by purification to
homogeneity followed by biochemical and molecular characterization purposes.
Through optimization, it was determined that the optimum peptidase activity was
16,000 U/mL. It was achieved after 36 h incubation at 35°C in the optimized
enzyme liquid medium (ELM) at pH 7.4 that contains only white shrimp shell
by-product (60 g/L) as sole energy and carbon sources. The SAPV enzyme is a
monomer protein with a molecular mass of 31 kDa as estimated by sodium dodecyl
sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and high-performance liquid
chromatography (HPLC) gel filtration chromatography. The sequence of its
NH2-terminal amino-acid residues showed homology with those of Bacillus
peptidases S8/S53 superfamily. The SAPV showed optimal activity at pH 9 and 60°C.
Irreversible inhibition of enzyme activity by diiodopropyl fluorophosphates (DFP)
and phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) confirmed its belonging to the serine
peptidases. Considering its interesting biochemical characterization, the sapV
gene was cloned, sequenced, and heterologously overexpressed in the extracellular
fraction of E. coli BL21(DE3)pLysS. The biochemical properties of the recombinant
peptidase (rSAPV) were similar to those of the native one. The highest sequence
identity value (97.66%) of SAPV was obtained with peptidase S8 from Virgibacillus
massiliensis DSM 28587, with 9 amino-acid residues of difference. Interestingly, 
rSAPV showed an outstanding and high resistance to several organic solvents than 
SPVP from Aeribacillus pallidus VP3 and Thermolysin type X. Furthermore, rSAPV
exhibited an excellent detergent stability and compatibility than Alcalase 2.4 L 
FG and Bioprotease N100L. Considering all these remarkable properties, rSAPV has 
attracted the interest of industrialists.

Copyright © 2019 Sondes Mechri et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2019/6470897 
PMCID: PMC6914889
PMID: 31886235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest.

