
1. Hepat Med. 2020 Jun 26;12:93-106. doi: 10.2147/HMER.S254195. eCollection 2020.

Effect of Oral Administration of Weissella confusa on Fecal and Plasma Ethanol
Concentrations, Lipids and Glucose Metabolism in Wistar Rats Fed High Fructose
and Fat Diet.

Elshaghabee FMF(1), Ghadimi D(1), Habermann D(1), de Vrese M(1), Bockelmann W(1),
Kaatsch HJ(2), Heller KJ(1), Schrezenmeir J(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Max Rubner-Institute, Federal Research Institute of Nutrition and Food,
Department of Microbiology and Biotechnology, Kiel, Germany.
(2)Institute of Legal Medicine, University Hospital of Schleswig-Holstein, Kiel, 
Germany.
(3)Max Rubner-Institute, Federal Research Institute of Nutrition and Food,
Department of Physiology and Biochemistry of Nutrition, Karlsruhe, Germany.
(4)Clinical Research Center, Kiel Innovation and Technology Center, Kiel,
Germany.

Background and Purpose: In previous investigations, Weissella confusa was shown
to lack the metabolic pathway from fructose to mannitol and to produce ethanol
when cultivated in the presence of fructose. Hence, we assessed the effect of
oral administration of W. confusa (strain NRRL-B-14171) on blood and fecal
ethanol concentrations, glucose and lipid metabolism and traits of the metabolic 
syndrome in Wistar rats (n=27) fed diets with two different fat and fructose
levels and with or without the addition of W. confusa during a total intervention
time of 15 weeks (105 days).
Materials and Methods: From week 1 to 6, rats were given a medium fructose and
fat (MFru-MF) diet containing 28% fructose and 10% fat without the addition of W.
confusa (control group, n=13) or mixed with 30 g per kg diet of lyophilized W.
confusa (10.56 ± 0.20 log CFU/g; W. confusa group, n=14). From week 7 to 15, the 
percentage of dietary fructose and fat in the control and W. confusa group was
increased to 56% and 16%, respectively (high fructose-high fat (HFru-HF) diet).
Results: In HFru-HF-fed rats, W. confusa was detected in feces, regardless of
whether W. confusa was added to the diet or not, but not in rats receiving the
MFru-MF diet without added W. confusa or in an additional control group (n=10)
fed standard rat food without fructose, increased fat content and W. confusa.
This indicates that fecal W. confusa may be derived from orally administered W.
confusa as well as - in the case of high fructose and fat intake and obesity of
rats - from the intestinal microbiota. As shown by multifactorial ANOVA, blood
ethanol, the relative liver weight, serum triglycerides, and serum cholesterol as
well as fecal ethanol, ADH, acetate, propionate and butyrate, but not lactate,
were significantly higher in the W. confusa - compared to the control group.
Discussion: This is the first in vivo trial demonstrating that heterofermentative
lactic acid bacteria lacking the mannitol pathway (like W. confusa) can increase 
fecal and blood ethanol concentrations in mammals on a high fructose-high fat
diet. This may explain why W. confusa resulted in hyperlipidemia and may promote 
development of NAFLD in the host.

© 2020 Elshaghabee et al.

DOI: 10.2147/HMER.S254195 
PMCID: PMC7326399
PMID: 32617026 

Conflict of interest statement: Dr Fouad M. F. Elshaghabee reports grants from
MRI, during the conduct of the study. The authors report no other conflicts of
interest in this work.

