
1. Mol Med Rep. 2020 Nov;22(5):4143-4150. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2020.11512. Epub 2020 Sep
15.

Weissella cibaria CMU exerts an anti‑inflammatory effect by inhibiting
Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans‑induced NF‑κB activation in macrophages.

Kim MJ(1), You YO(2), Kang JY(2), Kim HJ(3), Kang MS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Convergence Technology for Food Industry and Dental Research
Institute, School of Dentistry, Wonkwang University, Iksan, Jellabukdo 54538,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Oral Biochemistry, School of Dentistry, Wonkwang University,
Iksan, Jellabukdo 54538, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Oral Anatomy and Dental Research Institute, School of Dentistry,
Wonkwang University, Iksan, Jellabukdo 54538, Republic of Korea.
(4)Research and Development Department, Research Institute, OraPharm Inc., Seoul 
04782, Republic of Korea.

Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory disease caused by various periodontal
pathogens. Weissella cibaria CMU (oraCMU) is a probiotic that promotes oral
health. However, its anti‑inflammatory effects against periodontal pathogens have
not yet been investigated. The present study evaluated the anti‑inflammatory
effects of live oraCMU against stimulation with the formalin‑inactivated
periodontal pathogen Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans in RAW 264.7
macrophages. Cell viability was analyzed by the MTS assay in a dose‑dependent
manner (at multiplicities of infection of 0.1, 1, 10, 100 and 1,000). Nitric
oxide (NO) was monitored using the Griess test. The mRNA expression of
proinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin (IL)1β and IL6 was assessed by
reverse transcription‑quantitative PCR. Western blotting was used to examine the 
effects of oraCMU on the phosphorylation of NF‑κB inhibitor α (IκBα) and IκBα
kinase (IKK), the nuclear translocation of the NF‑κB subunit p65 and the
expression of inducible NO synthase (iNOS). Live oraCMU had no cytotoxic effects 
on RAW 264.7 macrophages. In A. actinomycetemcomitans‑stimulated RAW 264.7
macrophages, oraCMU reduced NO production by suppressing iNOS expression and
downregulating the mRNA expression of proinflammatory cytokines in a
dose‑dependent manner. IKK phosphorylation and IκBα degradation were
dose‑dependently inhibited by oraCMU and the nuclear translocation of p65 via the
canonical NF‑κB pathway was simultaneously reduced. The results indicated that
oraCMU possessed anti‑inflammatory activity associated with the inhibition of
NF‑κB signal activation in response to periodontal pathogens. This suggests that 
oraCMU is a beneficial anti‑inflammatory probiotic that can aid in the
maintenance of oral health.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2020.11512 
PMID: 33000248 

