
1. J Food Sci Technol. 2020 Apr;57(4):1579-1585. doi: 10.1007/s13197-020-04262-3.
Epub 2020 Jan 24.

Evaluation of oil-in-water (O/W) emulsifying properties of galactan
exopolysaccharide from Weissella confusa KR780676.

Kavitake D(1), Balyan S(1), Devi PB(1), Shetty PH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Pondicherry University,
Pondicherry, 605014 India.

Galactan exopolysaccharide (EPS) was extracted from Weissella confusa KR780676
isolated from idli batter. The present study reports the effect of galactan EPS
concentration, pH, ionic strength, temperature, salinity, monovalent salts on the
emulsion formed with vegetable oils (virgin coconut oil, groundnut oil, olive oil
and mustard oil). Emulsion determination test revealed the oil-in-water type of
emulsion. Microscopic observation showed the phase of oil droplet distribution of
emulsions. Groundnut and olive oil showed significant emulsifying activity
(50-60%) and stability (90%) irrespective of the EPS concentration. One percent
of EPS also showed good emulsifying activity (50-70%) and stability (100%) with
groundnut and olive oil in wide range of temperature (- 20, 4, 30, 40, 50 and
60 °C), pH (3-8), salinity (1, 5, 10, 20 and 30% of NaCl) and monovalent salt (1,
5, 10, 20 and 30% of KCl). Galactan could be used as a prominent emulsifier for
applications in the food industry as it possesses significant activity with most 
of the influential factors in wide range and also obtained from lactic acid
bacteria that are regarded as Generally Regarded as Safe (GRAS).

© Association of Food Scientists & Technologists (India) 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-020-04262-3 
PMCID: PMC7054585 [Available on 2021-04-01]
PMID: 32180655 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interestAuthors declare that they do
not have any conflict of interest.

