
1. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2020 May 28. doi: 10.1007/s12602-020-09663-6.
[Epub ahead of print]

Hepatoprotective Effect of Probiotic Lactic Acid Bacteria on
Thioacetamide-Induced Liver Fibrosis in Rats.

Jantararussamee C(1), Rodniem S(1), Taweechotipatr M(2), Showpittapornchai U(1), 
Pradidarcheep W(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, Srinakharinwirot University,
Sukhumvit 23 Rd, Bangkok, 10110, Thailand.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Srinakharinwirot University, 
Sukhumvit 23 Rd, Bangkok, 10110, Thailand.
(3)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, Srinakharinwirot University,
Sukhumvit 23 Rd, Bangkok, 10110, Thailand. pthongp@gmail.com.

Hepatic fibrosis is a reversible wound-healing response characterized by the
accumulation of extracellular matrix. Probiotics have been used to prevent and
treat various disorders. The aim of the present study was to investigate the
hepatoprotective effects of probiotic lactic acid bacteria (mixture of
Lactobacillus paracasei, Lactobacillus casei, and Weissella confusa) on
thioacetamide (TAA)-induced liver fibrosis in rats. Thirty-five male Wistar rats 
were randomly divided into five groups: (1) control, (2) TAA, (3) TAA+probiotics,
(4) TAA+silymarin, and (5) probiotics. Group 1 rats received a standard diet. In 
groups 2-4, fibrosis was induced by intraperitoneal injection of TAA (200 mg/kg
BW) 3 times weekly for 8 consecutive weeks. Group 4 received TAA plus 100 mg/kg
BW of silymarin 2 times weekly. Groups 3 and 5 were fed 109 CFU/mL viable
microbial cells daily by gavage. The rats were sacrificed after 8 weeks of
treatment. Liver tissues were collected immediately and processed for
histopathological, lipid peroxidation, and Western blot analyses of TNF-α,
TGF-β1, and α-SMA. Blood serum was collected to measure liver enzymes. Rats in
the TAA groups suffered from hepatic injury (increased serum enzyme levels, liver
inflammation, and increased concentration of TNF-α, TGF-β1, and α-SMA proteins)
and extensive liver fibrosis. In contrast, TAA-treated rats receiving probiotics 
or silymarin had significantly lower serum enzyme levels, less inflammation, and 
less fibrosis. Liver damage was lower in the TAA+probiotics-treated group.
Consumption of a mixture of probiotic lactic acid bacteria attenuates the
development of liver fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-020-09663-6 
PMID: 32468435 

