
1. Sci Total Environ. 2019 Oct 15;687:341-347. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.06.113.
Epub 2019 Jun 8.

Lactic acid bacteria modulate organic acid production during early stages of food
waste composting.

Tran QNM(1), Mimoto H(1), Koyama M(1), Nakasaki K(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Environment and Society, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 2-12-1,
Ookayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 152-8550, Japan.
(2)School of Environment and Society, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 2-12-1,
Ookayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 152-8550, Japan. Electronic address:
nakasaki@ide.titech.ac.jp.

Lactic acid bacteria are observed during early stages of almost all food waste
composting. Among them, 2 types of lactic acid bacteria, Pediococcus
(homofermentative lactic acid bacterium) and Weissella (heterofermentative lactic
acid bacterium) have been often reported. In this study, the roles of these 2
types of lactic acid bacteria in the composting were tried to elucidate. It has
been pointed out that Pediococcus accelerates the composting process by producing
lactic acid which prevented acetic acid generation, thus activating indigenous
composting microorganisms. On the other hand, this study elucidated that
Weissella produced acetic acid of 20 mg g-1 DS, which is harmful to composting
microorganisms, resulting in the inhibition of vigorous organic matter
degradation. When these 2 coexist in the starting material, whether the
composting succceeds or not depends on the ratio of these 2 lactic acid bacteria.
If Pediococcus and Weissella ratio was higher than 101.5, acetic acid level was
almost 3 times lower than that observed in the composting with their lower ratios
of 1 and 10-1, probably because of the interaction of Pediococcus and Weissella
resulting in the suppression of Weissella activity, and thus composting was
accelerated.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.06.113 
PMID: 31207523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

