
1. Prep Biochem Biotechnol. 2020 Jun 26:1-9. doi: 10.1080/10826068.2020.1780609.
[Epub ahead of print]

The response surface optimization of exopolysaccharide produced by Weissella
confusa XG-3 and its rheological property.

Zhao D(1)(2), Liu L(1)(2), Jiang J(1)(2), Guo S(1)(2), Ping W(1)(2), Ge J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Engineering Research Center of Agricultural Microbiology Technology, Ministry 
of Education, Harbin, Heilongjiang, P. R. China.
(2)Laboratory of Microbiology, College of Life Science, Heilongjiang University, 
Harbin, Heilongjiang, P. R. China.

The response surface methodology (RSM) was used to optimize the exopolysaccharide
(EPS) production by a lactic acid bacteria (LAB) Weissella confusa XG-3.
Two-level factorial design screened three significantly influencing factors
sucrose, initial pH and sodium acetate. Central composite design (CCD) predicted 
under the condition of sucrose 80.1 g L-1, initial pH 5.8 and sodium acetate
3.7 g L-1, the maximal EPS yield obtained a 2.9-fold increase, reaching
97.5 ± 1.1 g L-1. This maximal value was far exceeding EPS production by other W.
confusa species strains reported so far. The results suggested that W. confusa
XG-3 had a potential for large-scale EPS production. The rheological properties
of XG-3 EPS was further investigated. It was a typical non-Newtonian fluid,
exhibiting pseudo-plastic behavior. The EPS concentration and temperature exerted
positive and negative impact on apparent viscosity, respectively. The XG-3 EPS
maintained relatively higher viscosity at moderate pH (6-8). The intrinsic
viscosity [η] was 409.7 (25 °C) and 201.7 (35 °C), which was relevant to
temperature but irrelevant to EPS concentration. This EPS efficiently coagulated 
sucrose-supplemented milk in a concentration-dependent manner. These results
indicated that XG-3 EPS had an applicable potential in food processing fields
especially dairy products.

DOI: 10.1080/10826068.2020.1780609 
PMID: 32589090 

