
1. Int J Food Microbiol. 2020 Apr 2;318:108466. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2019.108466. Epub 2019 Dec 2.

A mathematical modeling approach to the quantification of lactic acid bacteria in
vacuum-packaged samples of cooked meat: Combining the TaqMan-based quantitative
PCR method with the plate-count method.

Martins WF(1), Longhi DA(2), de Aragão GMF(3), Melero B(4), Rovira J(4), Diez
AM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Federal University of Santa Catarina, Department of Chemical Engineering and
Food Engineering, Center of Technology, Florianópolis, SC 88040-901, Brazil;
Federal Institute of Education, Science and Technology of Goiano, Food
Technology, Campus Morrinhos, Morrinhos, GO 75650-000, Brazil.
(2)Federal University of Paraná, Food Engineering, Campus Jandaia do Sul, Jandaia
do Sul, PR 86900-000, Brazil.
(3)Federal University of Santa Catarina, Department of Chemical Engineering and
Food Engineering, Center of Technology, Florianópolis, SC 88040-901, Brazil.
(4)University of Burgos, Department of Biotechnology and Food Science, Burgos
09001, Spain.
(5)University of Burgos, Department of Biotechnology and Food Science, Burgos
09001, Spain. Electronic address: amdiez@ubu.es.

The TaqMan-based quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (qPCR) method and the
Plate Count (PC) method are both used in combination with primary and secondary
mathematical modeling, to describe the growth curves of Leuconostoc mesenteroides
and Weissella viridescens in vacuum-packaged meat products during storage under
different isothermal conditions. Vacuum-Packaged Morcilla (VPM), a typical cooked
blood sausage, is used as a representative meat product, with the aim of
improving shelf-life prediction methods for those sorts of meat products. The
standard curves constructed by qPCR showed good linearity between the cycle
threshold (CT) and log10 CFU/g, demonstrating the high precision and the
reproducible results of the qPCR method. The curves were used for the
quantification of L. mesenteroides and W. viridescens in artificially inoculated 
VPM samples under isothermal storage (5, 8, 13 and 18 °C). Primally, both the
qPCR and the PC methods were compared, and a linear regression analysis
demonstrated a statistically significant linear correlation between the methods. 
Secondly, the Baranyi and Roberts model was fitted to the growth curve data to
estimate the kinetic parameters of L. mesenteroides and W. viridescens under
isothermal conditions, and secondary models were used to establish the dependence
of the maximum specific growth rate on the temperature. The results proved that
primary and secondary models were adequate for describing the growth curves of
both methods in relation to both bacteria. In conclusion, the results of all the 
experiments proved that the qPCR method in combination with the PC method can be 
used to construct microbial growth kinetics and that primary and secondary
mathematical modeling can be successfully applied to describe the growth of L.
mesenteroides and W. viridescens in vacuum-packaged morcilla and, by extension,
other cooked meat products with similar characteristics.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2019.108466 
PMID: 31865245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

