
1. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2020 Jul 3;8:751. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00751.
eCollection 2020.

Reuse of Immobilized Weissella cibaria PN3 for Long-Term Production of Both
Extracellular and Cell-Bound Glycolipid Biosurfactants.

Subsanguan T(1)(2), Khondee N(3), Nawavimarn P(4), Rongsayamanont W(5), Chen
CY(6), Luepromchai E(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)International Program in Hazardous Substance and Environmental Management,
Graduate School, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Research Program on Remediation Technologies for Petroleum Contamination,
Center of Excellence on Hazardous Substance Management, Chulalongkorn University,
Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)Department of Natural Resources and Environment, Faculty of Agriculture
Natural Resources and Environment, Naresuan University, Phitsanulok, Thailand.
(4)Microbial Technology for Marine Pollution Treatment Research Unit, Department 
of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(5)Faculty of Environment and Resource Studies, Mahidol University, Nakhon
Pathom, Thailand.
(6)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, National Chung Cheng
University, Chiayi, Taiwan.

Lactic acid bacteria (LABs) are generally recognized as safe (GRAS), and
therefore, LAB biosurfactants are beneficial with negligible negative impacts.
This study aims to maintain the biosurfactant producing activity of an LAB
strain, Weissella cibaria PN3, by immobilizing the bacterial cells on a
commercial porous carrier. For biosurfactant production, 2% soybean oil was used 
as the carbon source. After 72 h, immobilized cells were reused by replacing
production medium. The extracellular and cell-bound biosurfactants were extracted
from the resulting cell-free broth and cell pellets, respectively. SEM images of 
used immobilizing carriers showed increased surface roughness and clogged pores
over time. Thus, the immobilizing carriers were washed in PBS buffer (pH 8.0)
before reuse. To maintain biosurfactant production activity, immobilized cells
were reactivated every three production cycles by incubating the washed
immobilizing carriers in LB medium for 48 h. The maximum yields of purified
extracellular (1.46 g/L) and cell-bound biosurfactants (1.99 g/L) were achieved
in the 4th production cycle. The repeated biosurfactant production of nine cycles
were completed within 1 month, while only 2 g of immobilized cells/L were
applied. The extracellular and cell-bound biosurfactants had comparable surface
tensions (31 - 33 mN/m); however, their CMC values were different (1.6 and 3.2
g/L, respectively). Both biosurfactants had moderate oil displacement efficiency 
with crude oil samples but formed emulsions well with gasoline, diesel, and
lavender, lemongrass and coconut oils. The results suggested that the
biosurfactants were relatively hydrophilic. In addition, the mixing of both
biosurfactants showed a synergistic effect, as seen from the increased
emulsifying activity with palm, soybean and crude oils. The biosurfactants at 10 
- 16 mg/mL showed antimicrobial activity toward some bacteria and yeast but not
filamentous fungi. The molecular structures of these biosurfactants were
characterized by FTIR as different glycolipid congeners. The biosurfactant
production process by immobilized Weissella cibaria PN3 cells was relatively
cheap given that two types of biosurfactants were simultaneously produced and no 
new inoculum was required. The acquired glycolipid biosurfactants have high
potential to be used separately or as mixed biosurfactants in various products,
such as cleaning agents, food-grade emulsifiers and cosmetic products.

Copyright Â© 2020 Subsanguan, Khondee, Nawavimarn, Rongsayamanont, Chen and
Luepromchai.

DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2020.00751 
PMCID: PMC7347796
PMID: 32719789 

