
1. Foods. 2020 Sep 5;9(9). pii: E1242. doi: 10.3390/foods9091242.

A Novel Weissella cibaria Strain UTNGt21O Isolated from Wild Solanum quitoense
Fruit: Genome Sequence and Characterization of a Peptide with Highly Inhibitory
Potential toward Gram-Negative Bacteria.

Tenea GN(1), Hurtado P(1), Ortega C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biofood and Nutraceutics Research and Development Group, Faculty of
Engineering in Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, Technical University of
the North, Av. 17 de Julio s-21 Barrio El Olivo, 100150 Ibarra, Ecuador.

A novel Weissella cibaria strain UTNGt21O from the fruit of the Solanum quitoense
(naranjilla) shrub produces a peptide that inhibits the growth of both Salmonella
enterica subsp. enterica ATCC51741 and Escherichia coli ATCC25922 at different
stages. A total of 31 contigs were assembled, with a total length of 1,924,087
bases, 20 contig hits match the core genome of different groups within Weissella,
while for 11 contigs no match was found in the database. The GT content was
39.53% and the genome repeats sequences constitute around 186,760 bases of the
assembly. The UTNGt21O matches the W. cibaria genome with 83% identity and no
gaps (0). The sequencing data were deposited in the NCBI Database (BioProject
accessions: PRJNA639289). The antibacterial activity and interaction mechanism of
the peptide UTNGt21O on target bacteria were investigated by analyzing the
growth, integrity, and morphology of the bacterial cells following treatment with
different concentrations (1×, 1.5× and 2× MIC) of the peptide applied alone or in
combination with chelating agent ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) at 20 mM.
The results indicated a bacteriolytic effect at both early and late target growth
at 3 h of incubation and total cell death at 6 h when EDTA was co-inoculated with
the peptide. Based on BAGEL 4 (Bacteriocin Genome Mining Tool) a putative
bacteriocin having 33.4% sequence similarity to enterolysin A was detected within
the contig 12. The interaction between the peptide UTNGt21O and the target
strains caused permeability in a dose-, time- response manner, with Salmonella
(3200 AU/mL) more susceptible than E. coli (6400 AU/mL). The results indicated
that UTNGt21O may damage the integrity of the cell target, leading to release of 
cytoplasmic components followed by cell death. Differences in membrane shape
changes in target cells treated with different doses of peptide were observed by 
transmission electronic microscopy (TEM). Spheroplasts with spherical shapes were
detected in Salmonella while larger shaped spheroplasts with thicker and deformed
membranes along with filamentous cells were observed in E. coli upon the
treatment with the UTNGt21O peptide. These results indicate the promising
potential of the putative bacteriocin released by the novel W. cibaria strain
UTNGt21O to be further tested as a new antimicrobial substance.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9091242 
PMID: 32899506 

