
1. PLoS One. 2020 Jul 23;15(7):e0236190. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0236190.
eCollection 2020.

Selection of cereal-sourced lactic acid bacteria as candidate starters for the
baking industry.

Milanović V(1), Osimani A(1), Garofalo C(1), Belleggia L(1), Maoloni A(1),
Cardinali F(1), Mozzon M(1), Foligni R(1), Aquilanti L(1), Clementi F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Agrarie, Alimentari ed Ambientali, Università
Politecnica delle Marche, Ancona, Italy.

The quality of sourdough bread mainly depends on metabolic activities of lactic
acid bacteria (LAB). The exopolysaccharides (EPS) produced by LAB affect
positively the technological and nutritional properties of the bread, while
phytases improve the bioavailability of the minerals by reducing its phytate
content. In the present study, a pool of 152 cereal-sourced LAB were screened for
production of phytases and EPS for potential use as sourdough starter cultures
for the baking industry. There was large heterogeneity in the phytase activity
observed among the screened isolates, with 95% showing the ability to degrade
sodium phytate on plates containing Sourdough Simulation Medium (SSM). The
isolates Lactobacillus brevis LD65 and Lactobacillus plantarum PB241 showed the
highest enzymatic activity, while the isolates ascribed to Weissella confusa were
characterized by low or no phytase activity. Only 18% of the screened LAB
produced EPS, which were distinguished as ropy or mucoid phenotypes on SSM
supplemented with sucrose. Almost all the EPS producers carried one or more genes
(epsD/E and/or epsA) involved in the production of heteropolysaccharides (HePS), 
whereas the isolates ascribed to Leuconostoc citreum and W. confusa carried genes
involved in the production of both HePS and homopolysaccharides (HoPS).
Monosaccharide composition analysis of the EPS produced by a selected subset of
isolates revealed that all the HePS included glucose, mannose, and galactose,
though at different ratios. Furthermore, a few isolates ascribed to L. citreum
and W. confusa and carrying the gtf gene produced β-glucans after fermentation in
an ad hoc formulated barley flour medium. Based on the overall results collected,
a subset of candidate sourdough starter cultures for the baking industry was
selected, including Lb. brevis LD66 and L. citreum PB220, which showed high
phytase activity and positive EPS production.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0236190 
PMCID: PMC7377444
PMID: 32702068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

