
1. Front Microbiol. 2020 May 21;11:967. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00967. eCollection
2020.

Effect of Amaranth and Quinoa Flours on Exopolysaccharide Production and Protein 
Profile of Liquid Sourdough Fermented by Weissella cibaria and Lactobacillus
plantarum.

Valerio F(1), Bavaro AR(1), Di Biase M(1), Lonigro SL(1), Logrieco AF(1),
Lavermicocca P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Sciences of Food Production, National Research Council of Italy, 
Bari, Italy.

Exopolysaccharides (EPSs) are known for their positive contribute to the
technological properties of many foods, including bakery products. These
molecules can be obtained performing piloted fermentation with lactic acid
bacteria (LAB). In order to select strains able to produce EPS, a screening test 
in agar medium containing sucrose, fructose or glucose as carbohydrate source was
performed on 21 LAB strains. Results allowed to select 8 Weissella cibaria, 2
Weissella confusa, and 2 Leuconostoc spp. strains as EPS producers only in the
presence of sucrose. A further screening in liquid medium enriched with sucrose
(10%) (mMRS_S) indicated the W. cibaria strain C43-11 as the higher EPS producer.
The selected strain was used to develop liquid sourdoughs (LSs) with dough yield 
(DY) 500, fermented for 15 h and based on wheat flour and wheat gluten or
pseudocereals (quinoa or amaranth) in ratio 1:1, in the presence or not of
sucrose at 3% (w/w, LS weight), in comparison to Lactobacillus plantarum ITM21B, 
a strain not producing EPS in mMRS_S. Results indicated that the use of
pseudocereals favored the EPS production. Formulations were optimized by
modifying DY (500 or 250), sucrose concentration (3 or 6%) and flour ratio. LSs
were characterized for the content of organic acids (lactic, acetic,
phenyllactic, OH-phenyllactic), pH, TTA, EPS, viscosity, total protein
degradation and protein pattern. The highest EPS production (20.79 g/kg) and
viscosity (1168 mPa s) were obtained in LS (DY 250, sucrose 6%) based on quinoa
flour and started with C43-11 strain. The LS was characterized by the presence of
phenyllactic and OH-phenyllactic acids, protein degradation by 51.7% and proteins
in the range 14-80 kDa. In these conditions, also strain ITM21B was able to
produce EPS at level of 4.61 g/kg and to degrade proteins by 53.8% in LS based on
wheat and quinoa flours (1:1) (DY250 and sucrose 3%). Therefore, results
demonstrated that the use of selected conditions (flour type, DY, sucrose) can
stimulate specific attributes of strains making them suitable for production of
short fermented (15 h) LSs which can be used as bread improvers.

Copyright Â© 2020 Valerio, Bavaro, Di Biase, Lonigro, Logrieco and Lavermicocca.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00967 
PMCID: PMC7253592
PMID: 32508785 

