
1. Microorganisms. 2020 Aug 30;8(9). pii: E1324. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8091324.

Effect of Lactic Acid Fermentation on Color, Phenolic Compounds and Antioxidant
Activity in African Nightshade.

Degrain A(1)(2), Manhivi V(1), Remize F(2), Garcia C(2), Sivakumar D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Phytochemical Food Network Research Group, Department of Crop Sciences,
Tshwane University of Technology, Pretoria West 0001, South Africa.
(2)QualiSud, Université de La Réunion, CIRAD, Université Montpellier, Montpellier
SupAgro, Université d'Avignon, 97490 Sainte Clotilde, France.

This study aimed to investigate the influences of fermentation at 37 °C for 3
days by different lactic acid bacterium strains, Lactobacillus plantarum (17a),
Weissella cibaria (21), Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides (56), W. cibaria (64) or 
L. plantarum (75), on color, pH, total soluble solids (TSS), phenolic compounds
and antioxidant activity of African nightshade (leaves). Results indicated
fermentation with L. plantarum 75 strain significantly decreased the pH and total
soluble solids, and increased the concentration of ascorbic acid after 3 days. L.
plantarum 75 strain limited the color modification in fermented nightshade leaves
and increased the total polyphenol content and the antioxidant activity compared 
to the raw nightshade leaves. Overall, L. plantarum75 enhanced the functional
potential of nightshade leaves and improved the bioavailability of gallic,
vanillic acid, coumaric, ferulic ellagic acids, flavonoids (catechin, quercetin
and luteolin) and ascorbic acid compared to the other lactic acid bacterium
strains. Correlation analysis indicated that vanillic acid and p-coumaric acid
were responsible for the increased antioxidant activity. Proximate analysis of
the fermented nightshade leaves showed reduced carbohydrate content and low
calculated energy.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8091324 
PMID: 32872680 

