
1. Biosci Microbiota Food Health. 2020;39(3):152-159. doi: 10.12938/bmfh.2019-038.
Epub 2020 Mar 6.

Impact of pH on succession of sourdough lactic acid bacteria communities and
their fermentation properties.

Oshiro M(1)(2), Tanaka M(1), Zendo T(1), Nakayama J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Microbial Technology, Division of Systems Bioengineering,
Department of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Faculty of Agriculture, Graduate
School, Kyushu University, 744 Motooka, Nishi-ku, Fukuoka 819-0395, Japan.
(2)Central Laboratory of Yamazaki Baking Company Limited, 3-23-27 Ichikawa,
Ichikawa City, Chiba 272-8581, Japan.

Sourdough, a traditional fermented dough, is made via natural fermentation by
lactic acid bacteria (LAB). Its pH changes from near neutral to acid during the
subculture process. However, the product quality of subcultured sourdough depends
on the unpredictable succession of LAB communities, the influential factors of
which are still unclear. To elucidate one end of the LAB community succession
mechanism, we evaluated the effect of pH by designing four subculture experiments
using a model medium adjusted to pH 6.7, 5.5, and 4.5, as well as a natural
sourdough subculture. All experiments began by inoculating a sourdough LAB
mixture, and both bacterial successions and fermentative properties were
monitored until ten subculture steps. In media subcultures, lactic acid
production was higher in higher pH media. Three LAB genera, Weissella,
Pediococcus, and Lactobacillus, each represented by one operational taxonomic
unit (OTU), were successively detected in all subcultures. In later steps with
lower pH media, an OTU closely related to Lactobacillus brevis dominated,
replacing an OTU closely related to the Weissella cibaria-confusa group that was 
more dominant than the L. brevis OTU in the near-neutral pH medium. In the
sourdough subculture, the three genera were also detected, while Lactobacillus
was dominant in earlier steps due to the emergence of an OTU closely related to
Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis. These results suggest that a lower pH is
favorable for the sequence of sourdough bacterial community evolution finalizing 
with Lactobacillus domination. Further research is needed to elucidate additional
factors other than pH that influence the pattern of LAB community shift.

Â©2020 BMFH Press.

DOI: 10.12938/bmfh.2019-038 
PMCID: PMC7392915
PMID: 32775134 

