
1. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2020 Apr;70(4):2485-2492. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004062.
Epub 2020 Feb 25.

Weissella sagaensis sp. nov., isolated from traditional Chinese yogurt.

Li YQ(1), Tian WL(2), Gu CT(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Northeast Agricultural University, Harbin 150030, PR
China.
(2)Institute of Apicultural Research, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Beijing 100093, PR China.

Three Gram-stain-positive bacterial strains, designated X0750T, X0278 and X0401, 
isolated from traditional yogurt in Tibet Autonomous Region, PR China, were
characterized by a polyphasic approach, including sequence analyses of the 16S
rRNA gene and three housekeeping genes (pheS, rpoA and recA), determination of
average nucleotide identity (ANI) and average amino acid identity (AAI), in
silico DNA-DNA hybridization (isDDH), fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) analysis and
phenotypic characterization. Strain X0750T was phylogenetically related to the
type strains of Weissella hellenica, Weissella bombi, Weissella
paramesenteroides, Weissella jogaejeotgali, Weissella thailandensis, Weissella
oryzae, Weissella cibaria and Weissella confusa, having 94.4-100 % 16S rRNA gene 
sequence similarities, 76.7-90.0 % pheS gene sequence similarities,
88.9-99.4 % rpoA gene sequence similarities and 77.6-92.8 % recA gene sequence
similarities, respectively. ANI, isDDH and AAI values between strain X0750T and
type strains of phylogenetically related species were less than 90.4, 40.9 and
92.8 % respectively, confirming that strain X0750T represents a novel species
within the genus Weissella. Based upon the data obtained in the present study, a 
novel species, Weissella sagaensis sp. nov., is proposed and the type strain is
X0750T(=NCIMB 15192T=CCM 8924T=LMG 31184T=CCTCC AB 2018403T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004062 
PMID: 32100692  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

