
1. Microb Pathog. 2020 Aug;145:104213. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104213. Epub 2020
Apr 22.

Probiotic potential and safety assessment of Lactobacillus isolated from yaks.

Liu J(1), Wang Y(1), Li A(1), Iqbal M(2), Zhang L(1), Pan H(1), Liu Z(3), Li
J(4).

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan,
430070, PR China.
(2)College of Veterinary Medicine, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan,
430070, PR China; University College of Veterinary & Animal Sciences, The Islamia
University of Bahawalpur, 63100, Pakistan.
(3)College of Veterinary Medicine, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan,
430070, PR China; Anqing Normal University, Anqing, 246000, PR China.
(4)College of Veterinary Medicine, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan,
430070, PR China; College of Animals Husbandry and Veterinary Medicine, Tibet
Agricultural and Animal Husbandry University, Linzhi, Tibet, 860000, PR China.
Electronic address: lijk210@sina.com.

Current problem of antibiotic resistance and the high incidence of bacterial
diseases has brought huge losses to the yak breeding industry in Tibet.
Therefore, the purpose of this study was to isolate Lactobacillus with safety and
beneficial probiotic potential for the prophylaxis of intestinal diseases in
yaks. After 16S rDNA sequence, four strains i.e. Lactobacillus sakei (named L4), 
Enterococcus hirae (named E5), Pediococcus acidilactici (named P7), Weissella
confusa (named W8) were isolated from feces of yaks. The results of tolerance to 
acid, bile salt, enzyme and temperature showed that P7 was highly tolerant to
acid, bile salt and digestive enzyme, while E5 was more resistant to temperature.
The antibacterial assay showed L4 had a strong inhibitory effect against
Staphylococcus aureus (BNCC186335), and E5, P7, W8 had effective antibacterial
ability against Escherichia coli (C83902). In addition, L4, E5, P7 and W8 mainly 
produced organic acids and bacteriocin production to inhibit common intestinal
pathogens. The results of antibiotic susceptibility assay indicated that L4, E5, 
P7 and W8 were highly sensitive to most clinically used antibiotics and didn't
contain the VanA and VanB genes on the basis of PCR amplification, and L4, E5, P7
and W8 didn't exhibit hemolytic activity. The animal toxicity experiment results 
showed that no obvious pathological change was found in intestinal tissue
sections, and L4, E5 and W8 strains also promoted the growth performance of mice,
consequently, the L4, E5, P7 and W8 had no toxic effect on mice. In conclusion,
lactobacillus isolated from feces of yaks not only have potential probiotics and 
strong antibacterial ability in vitro, but also are safe. Therefore, they have
the potential to reduce the occurrence of bacterial diseases as new feed
additives.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2020.104213 
PMID: 32333954 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest There are no
conflicts of interest.

