
1. Probiotics Antimicrob Proteins. 2019 Dec;11(4):1086-1099. doi:
10.1007/s12602-018-9452-5.

Antioxidative and Probiotic Activities of Lactic Acid Bacteria Isolated from
Traditional Artisanal Milk Cheese from Northeast China.

Shi Y(1), Cui X(1), Gu S(1), Yan X(1), Li R(2), Xia S(1), Chen H(3), Ge J(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northeast Agricultural University, Harbin,
150030, China.
(2)College of Food Science, Northeast Agricultural University, Harbin, 150030,
China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Veterinary Biotechnology, Heilongjiang Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Laboratory Animal and Comparative Medicine, Harbin Veterinary
Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Harbin, 150069,
People's Republic of China.
(4)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northeast Agricultural University, Harbin,
150030, China. gejunwei@neau.edu.cn.
(5)Heilongjiang Key Laboratory for Animal Disease Control and Pharmaceutical
Development, Harbin, 150030, China. gejunwei@neau.edu.cn.

The antioxidant activities and probiotic properties of lactic acid bacteria (LAB)
selected from traditional artisanal milk cheese from Northeast China were
investigated in this study. Among the 322 isolates, 175 LAB were identified
through probiotic characterizations. Twenty-three out of the 175 strains
exhibited antibacterial activity against more than four enteropathogenic
bacteria. The antioxidant action of 23 LAB was evaluated by different methods,
including scavenging of hydroxide radicals, DPPH radicals, superoxide anions, and
ABTS+ radical cation. The ability to resist hydrogen peroxide and superoxide
dismutase activity was also studied. These strains significantly showed
antioxidative capacity compared with a non-antioxidative strain, closely followed
by the standard probiotic strain Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG or even better. Based
on 16S ribosomal RNA-sequence analysis, the 23 isolates belonged to the species
Lactobacillus plantarum (16), Lactobacillus paracasei (2), Enterococcus faecium
(2), Lactobacillus helveticus (1), Weissella paramesenteroides (1), and
Pediococcus pentosaceus (1). In addition, five out of the 23 strains were
susceptible to most of the tested antibiotics, showed extremely high levels of
hydrophobicity similar to or better than the reference strain L. rhamnosus GG,
and did not exhibit any hemolytic activity. These five strains were also
confirmed safe through bacterial translocation. Results suggest that at least
five probiotic candidates can be explored as prospective antioxidants and used as
a potential antioxidant strain to be utilized in the development of functional
foods and new starter cultures.

DOI: 10.1007/s12602-018-9452-5 
PMID: 30056601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

