
1. Microbiol Res. 2020 Aug;237:126489. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126489. Epub 2020 
May 11.

Weissella confusa DD_A7 pre-treatment to zebrafish larvae ameliorates the
inflammation response against Escherichia coli O157:H7.

Dey DK(1), Kang SC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Daegu University, Jillyang, Naeri-ri, Gyeongsan, 
Gyeongbuk, 38453, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: deepdey1993@deagu.ac.kr.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, College of Engineering, Daegu University,
Jillyang, Naeri-ri, Gyeongsan, Gyeongbuk, 38453, Republic of Korea. Electronic
address: sckang@daegu.ac.kr.

Increasing multidrug-resistant pathogenic bacterial contamination in the
environment has become the leading cause of food poisoning, resulting in
life-threatening conditions due to late detection and limited therapeutic
options. Escherichia coli O157:H7 is one such pathogen which is severely
affecting the environmental livestock and ultimately leads to human infection. In
this context, probiotics could be a useful strategy to minimize the growth of
pathogens, as they produce several antimicrobial compounds and shows an exclusive
competitive behavior against the pathogens. Therefore, supplementation of
probiotics is wieldy accepted in the field of agriculture for the maintenance of 
animal's health. Previously, we reported that W. confusa DD_A7 possesses
anti-bacterial and immune-stimulatory activity in-vitro. Therefore, in the
present study, we investigated the impact of oral-administration of DD_A7 powder 
against E. coli O157:H7. The 6 days post-fertilized zebrafish larvae were used to
evaluate the pathogenicity of the microbe. 1 × 108 CFU/ml of E. coli O157:H7
effectively induced the inflammatory response in zebrafish larvae. Where 1 × 108 
CFU/ml DD_A7 pre-treatment prolonged the survivability of zebrafish larvae and
improved the immune response of zebrafish larvae against pathogenic infection.
The antibacterial property of DD_A7 against the pathogen correlated with the
significant reduction of oxidative stress and host inflammatory response, by
inhibiting NF-κB and its downstream signaling pathway. The findings demonstrated 
the prophylactic activity of DD_A7 suggesting that its supplementation improved
the host defense mechanism by reducing oxidative stress. The growth of pathogen
was effectively suppressed in the DD_A7 pre-treated larvae and maintained a
healthy gastrointestinal environment in the zebrafish model.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2020.126489 
PMID: 32464536 

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest We would like
to state that, the authors of the manuscript do not have any conflict of
interest.

