
1. Arch Microbiol. 2020 Oct;202(8):2207-2219. doi: 10.1007/s00203-020-01944-6. Epub 
2020 Jun 10.

Probiotic and technological features of Enterococcus and Weissella isolates from 
camel milk characterised by an Argane feeding regimen.

Mercha I(1)(2), Lakram N(3), Kabbour MR(3), Bouksaim M(3), Zkhiri F(4), El
Maadoudi EH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Virology, Microbiology and Quality, Biotechnology/Eco-Toxicology
and Biodiversity, University Hassan II Casablanca, Faculty of Science and
Techniques of Mohammedia, PB 146, 20650, Mohammedia, Morocco.
ikram.mercha@gmail.com.
(2)RU Animal Production and Forage, Food Technology Laboratory, INRA, RCAR-Rabat,
Institutes Rabat, PB 6570, 10101, Rabat, Morocco. ikram.mercha@gmail.com.
(3)RU Animal Production and Forage, Food Technology Laboratory, INRA, RCAR-Rabat,
Institutes Rabat, PB 6570, 10101, Rabat, Morocco.
(4)Laboratory of Virology, Microbiology and Quality, Biotechnology/Eco-Toxicology
and Biodiversity, University Hassan II Casablanca, Faculty of Science and
Techniques of Mohammedia, PB 146, 20650, Mohammedia, Morocco.

The objectives of this study were to isolate lactic acid bacteria (LAB) from a
raw Moroccan camel milk collected after the incorporation of a specific Argane
by-products diet, and to investigate their technological properties as well as
their probiotic features. The molecular identification of the isolates indicated 
that they belong to Weissella confusa, Weissella cibaria or Enterococcus durans
species. Our results revealed that the tested isolates have a fast acidifying
ability (values ranging between 0.045 ± 0.01 to 0.93 ± 0.01 after only 4 h
incubation), important proteolysis, autolysis, lipolytic activities and an
important diacetyl and exopolysaccharides production. All these isolates
demonstrated a high tolerance to gastrointestinal conditions, namely to gastric
simulated juice (survival rate ranged between 75.05 ± 7.88 and 85.55 ± 1.77%) and
to bile salts (survival rate between 42.79 ± 1.11 and 82.75 ± 1.01%). The
autoaggregation, hydrophobicity and antioxidant activity mean values of the
isolates were 13.26-41.16%, 13.23-54.47% and 47.57-63.31%, respectively.
Importantly, LAB cultures exhibited antibacterial activity against Gram-negative 
and Gram-positive pathogenic bacteria and none of the tested isolates presented
antibiotic resistance, haemolytic or DNase activities. This study revealed
interesting properties for LAB isolated and supported their utilization as
autochthone starters for camel milk fermentation that represent a challenge
process. These results presented as well the probiotic potential for a possible
human consumption.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-020-01944-6 
PMID: 32524178 

