
1. Braz J Biol. 2020 Sep 23. pii: S1519-69842020005029201. doi:
10.1590/1519-6984.229998. [Epub ahead of print]

Virulence genotyping and antimicrobial resistance profiles of Yersinia
enterocolitica isolated from meat and meat products in Egypt.

Younis GA(1), Elkenany RM(1), Dowidar HA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bacteriology, Mycology and Immunology, Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, Mansoura University, 35516, Mansoura, Egypt.
(2)Al-Azhar University, Mansoura, Egypt.

Pathogenic Yersinia enterocolitica (Y. enterocolitica) is one of the food-borne
entero-pathogen responsible for yersiniosis in humans. The purpose of this
research was to survey the prevalence, virulence-associated genes, and
antimicrobial resistance of Y. enterocolitica isolated from meat and meat product
samples in Egypt. Forty-one (5.9%) out of 700- samples of chicken meat, beef,
ground beef, and sausage were positive Y. enterocolitica with a high prevalence
in chicken meat (12%). Five virulence genes (ail, inv, ystA, ystB, and yadA) were
characterized among 41 Y. enterocolitica isolates with variable frequencies.
Among the strains tested, the ystB gene was detected with a high percentage
(78.1%), followed by inv gene (70.7%), ail gene (14.6%), ystA gene (12.2%), and
yadA gene (2.4%). A high resistance rate was estimated to amoxicillin-clavulanic 
acid (100%), followed by cefazolin (95%), ampicillin (65.9%), and doxycycline
(51.2%), whilst a high sensitivity rate was observed to gentamicin and
ciprofloxacin (97.6% each). Interestingly, the multidrug resistance was specified
in the 70.7% of strains and showing 13 resistance patterns. Based on nucleotide
sequence analysis of the 16s rRNA gene, the phylogenetic tree showed the genetic 
relatedness amongst Y. enterocolitica isolates. These findings highlighted the
emergence of virulent and multidrug-resistant pathogenic Y. entrocolitica in
retailed meat and meat products in Egypt.

DOI: 10.1590/1519-6984.229998 
PMID: 32996992 

