
1. Molecules. 2020 Sep 24;25(19). pii: E4392. doi: 10.3390/molecules25194392.

New Insights on the Feature and Function of Tail Tubular Protein B and Tail Fiber
Protein of the Lytic Bacteriophage φYeO3-12 Specific for Yersinia enterocolitica 
Serotype O:3.

Pyra A(1), Filik K(2), Szermer-Olearnik B(2), Czarny A(2), Brzozowska E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Chemistry, University of Wroclaw, 14 F. Joliot-Curie St, 50383
Wroclaw, Poland.
(2)Hirszfeld Institute of Immunology and Experimental Therapy, Polish Academy of 
Sciences, 12 R. Weigl St, 53114 Wroclaw, Poland.

For the first time, we are introducing TTPBgp12 and TFPgp17 as new members of the
tail tubular proteins B (TTPB) and tail fiber proteins (TFP) family,
respectively. These proteins originate from Yersinia enterocolitica phage
φYeO3-12. It was originally thought that these were structural proteins. However,
our results show that they also inhibit bacterial growth and biofilm formation.
According to the bioinformatic analysis, TTPBgp12 is functionally and
structurally similar to the TTP of Enterobacteria phage T7 and adopts a
β-structure. TFPgp17 contains an intramolecular chaperone domain at its
C-terminal end. The N-terminus of TFPgp17 is similar to other representatives of 
the TFP family. Interestingly, the predicted 3D structure of TFPgp17 is similar
to other bacterial S-layer proteins. Based on the thermal unfolding experiment,
TTPBgp12 seems to be a two-domain protein that aggregates in the presence of
sugars such as maltose and N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc). These sugars cause two
unfolding events to transition into one global event. TFPgp17 is a one-domain
protein. Maltose and GlcNAc decrease the aggregation temperature of TFPgp17,
while the presence of N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) increases the temperature of
its aggregation. The thermal unfolding analysis of the concentration gradient of 
TTPBgp12 and TFPgp17 indicates that with decreasing concentrations, both proteins
increase in stability. However, a decrease in the protein concentration also
causes an increase in its aggregation, for both TTPBgp12 and TFPgp17.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25194392 
PMID: 32987777 

