
1. Microb Genom. 2020 Sep;6(9). doi: 10.1099/mgen.0.000411. Epub 2020 Jul 23.

Comparative genomic insights into Yersinia hibernica - a commonly misidentified
Yersinia enterocolitica-like organism.

Nguyen SV(1), Muthappa DM(1), Eshwar AK(2), Buckley JF(3), Murphy BP(3), Stephan 
R(2), Lehner A(2), Fanning S(4)(1).

Author information: 
(1)UCD-Centre for Food Safety, School of Public Health, Physiotherapy & Sports
Science, University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin D04 N2E5, Ireland.
(2)Institute for Food Safety and Hygiene, University of Zurich, Zurich,
Switzerland.
(3)Veterinary Food Safety Laboratory, Cork County Council, Inniscarra, Co. Cork
and Department of Microbiology, National University of Ireland, Cork, College
Road, Cork, Ireland.
(4)Institute for Global Food Security, Queen's University Belfast, 19 Chlorine
Gardens, Belfast BT9 5AG, UK.

Food-associated outbreaks linked to enteropathogenic Yersinia enterocolitica are 
of concern to public health. Pigs and their meat are recognized risk factors for 
transmission of Y. enterocolitica. This study aimed to describe the comparative
genomics of Y. enterocolitica along with a number of misclassified Yersinia
isolates, now constituting the recently described Yersinia hibernica. The latter 
was originally cultured from an environmental sample taken at a pig
slaughterhouse. Unique features were identified in the genome of Y. hibernica,
including a novel integrative conjugative element (ICE), denoted as ICEYh-1
contained within a 255 kbp region of plasticity. In addition, a zebrafish embryo 
infection model was adapted and applied to assess the virulence potential among
Yersinia isolates including Y. hibernica.

DOI: 10.1099/mgen.0.000411 
PMID: 32701425 

