
1. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2020 Jan;117(1):49-61. doi: 10.1002/bit.27181. Epub 2019 Oct
9.

Matter-tag: A universal immobilization platform for enzymes on polymers, metals, 
and silicon-based materials.

Dedisch S(1)(2), Wiens A(2), Davari MD(2), Söder D(1), Rodriguez-Emmenegger
C(1)(3), Jakob F(1)(2), Schwaneberg U(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)DWI - Leibniz-Institute for Interactive Materials, Aachen, Germany.
(2)Lehrstuhl für Biotechnologie, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, Germany.
(3)Institute of Technical and Macromolecular Chemistry, RWTH Aachen University,
Aachen, Germany.

Enzyme immobilization is extensively studied to improve enzyme properties in
catalysis and analytical applications. Here, we introduce a simple and versatile 
enzyme immobilization platform based on adhesion-promoting peptides, namely
Matter-tags. Matter-tags immobilize enzymes in an oriented way as a dense
monolayer. The immobilization platform was established with three
adhesion-promoting peptides; Cecropin A (CecA), liquid chromatography peak I
(LCI), and Tachystatin A2 (TA2), that were genetically fused to enhanced green
fluorescent protein and to two industrially important enzymes: a phytase (from
Yersinia mollaretii) and a cellulase (CelA2 from a metagenomic library). Here, we
report a universal and simple Matter-tag-based immobilization platform for
enzymes on various materials including polymers (polystyrene, polypropylene, and 
polyethylene terephthalate), metals (stainless steel and gold), and silicon-based
materials (silicon wafer). The Matter-tag-based enzyme immobilization is
performed at ambient temperature within minutes (<10 min) in an aqueous solution 
harboring the phytase or cellulase by immersing the targeted material. The
peptide LCI was identified as universal adhesion promoter; LCI immobilized both
enzymes on all investigated materials. The attachment of phytase-LCI onto gold
was characterized with surface plasmon resonance spectroscopy obtaining a
dissociation constant value (KD ) of 2.9·10-8  M and a maximal surface coverage
of 504 ng/cm².

© 2019 The Authors. Biotechnology and Bioengineering published by Wiley
Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.27181 
PMID: 31549734 

