
1. Ann Palliat Med. 2020 Jul 8. pii: apm-20-256. doi: 10.21037/apm-20-256. [Epub
ahead of print]

Bloodstream infection caused by Yersinia enterocolitica in a host with ankylosing
spondylitis: a case report and literature review.

Liu YX(1), Zhong H(1), Le KJ(1), Cui M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Renji Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiaotong 
University, Shanghai 200127, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Renji Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiaotong 
University, Shanghai 200127, China. cuimin@renji.com.

The extraintestinal infections caused by Yersinia enterocolitica are very rare,
especially in the form of spontaneous bloodstream infection at people without
history of blood transfusion. Their clinical symptoms and treatments are still
not very clear for now. Here, we report a case of spontaneous bloodstream
infection caused by Y. enterocolitica in a 56-year-old Chinese male. The patient 
presented to outpatient with fever for 1 week, he was diagnosed ankylosing
spondylitis for 10 years, and suffered from the pain in his neck, lumbosacral
region and limbs constantly. After 4 days of outpatient treatment, there was no
sign of improvement so he admitted to inpatient department. Ceftriaxone and
metronidazole were initiated in the previous 3 days, the temperature did not drop
(highest temperature is 38.3 â„ƒ) and the limb joint pain was aggravated. On day 4,
antibiotic therapy was changed to moxifloxacin as the growth of Y. enterocolitica
showed in blood culture, then changed to amikacin and piperacillin/tazobactam
according to culture susceptibility. The patient received a total of 24 days
antibacterial treatment before discharge, his body temperature returned to
normal, but he remains continuous pain in lumbosacral region and limbs after
negative blood culture, which was considered to be caused by AS. Gastrointestinal
symptoms such as vomiting, diarrhea and abdominal pain were not reported during
the hospitalization, which usually appears in patients with Yersinia
enterocolitica infection. We reviewed 12 septicemia cases without the history of 
blood transfusion from the literature. Not all hosts were under a low immunity or
have a clear history of exposure. Clinical symptoms and antibiotic agents were
also different from case to case. Physicians should consider the rare diagnosis
of Y. enterocolitica infection in patients without clear history of exposure and 
typical symptoms. And distinguish between pain caused by AS and aseptic arthritis
caused by Y. enterocolitica.

DOI: 10.21037/apm-20-256 
PMID: 32648451 

