
1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2020 Sep 22;205:111365. doi:
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.111365. [Epub ahead of print]

Wastewater treatment plant workers' exposure and methods for risk evaluation of
their exposure.

Lu R(1), Frederiksen MW(2), Uhrbrand K(2), Li Y(3), Østergaard C(4), Madsen
AM(5).

Author information: 
(1)National Research Centre for the Working Environment, Lersø Parkallé 105,
DK-2100, Copenhagen, Denmark; School of Water and Environment, Chang'an
University, Xi'an, 710054, China.
(2)National Research Centre for the Working Environment, Lersø Parkallé 105,
DK-2100, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)School of Water and Environment, Chang'an University, Xi'an, 710054, China.
(4)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Lillebaelt Hospital, Denmark.
(5)National Research Centre for the Working Environment, Lersø Parkallé 105,
DK-2100, Copenhagen, Denmark. Electronic address: amm@nrcwe.dk.

Work in wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) can be associated with respiratory
symptoms and diarrhea. The aim of this study was to obtain knowledge about WWTP
workers' exposure to airborne bacteria and endotoxin, and the inflammatory
potential (TIP) of their exposure, and to evaluate the risk posed by the exposure
by 1) calculating a hazard index and relating the exposure to suggested
occupational exposure limits (OELs), 2) estimating the potential deposition of
bacteria in the airways, 3) relating it to the risk group classification of
bacteria by the European Union, and 4) estimating the TIP of the personal
exposure. A cohort of 14 workers were followed over one year. Bioaerosols were
collected using personal and stationary samplers in a grid chamber house and an
aeration tank area. Airborne bacteria were identified using (MALDI-TOF MS), and
TIP of exposure was measured using HL-60 cells. A significant effect of season,
work task, and person was found on the personal exposure. A hazard index based on
exposure levels indicates that the risk caused by inhalation is low. In relation 
to suggested OELs, 14% and 34% of the personal exposure were exceeded for
endotoxin (≥50 EU/m3) and bacteria (≥500 CFU/m3). At least 70% of the airborne
bacteria in the grid chamber house and the aeration tank area could potentially
deposit in the lower respiratory tract. From the personal samples, three of 131
bacterial species, Enterobacter cloacae, Staphylococcus aureus, and Yersinia
enterocolitica are classified within Risk Group 2. Seven additional bacteria from
the stationary samples belong to Risk Group 2. The bacterial species composition 
was affected significantly by season (p = 0.014) and by sampling type/area
(p = 0.001). The TIP of WWTP workers' exposure was higher than of a reference
sample, and the highest TIP was measured in autumn. TIP of personal exposure
correlated with bacterial exposure. Based on the geometric average exposures to
endotoxin (9.2 EU/m3) and bacteria (299 CFU/m3) and based on the calculated
hazard index, the risk associated with exposure is low. However, since 43 of 106 
exposure levels exceed suggested OELs, the TIP of exposure was elevated and
associated with bacterial exposure, and WWTP workers were exposed to pathogenic
bacteria, a continued focus on preventive measures is important. The
identification of bacteria to species level in personal samples was necessary in 
the risk assessment, and measurement of the microbial composition made the source
tracking possible.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2020.111365 
PMID: 32977286 

