
1. Virus Evol. 2020 Jun 22;6(1):veaa030. doi: 10.1093/ve/veaa030. eCollection 2020
Jan.

UPΦ phages, a new group of filamentous phages found in several members of
Enterobacteriales.

Shapiro JW(1), Putonti C(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Loyola University Chicago, 1032 W Sheridan Rd, Chicago,
IL 60660, USA.
(2)Department of Computer Science, Loyola University Chicago, 1052 W Loyola Ave, 
Chicago, IL, 60626, USA.
(3)Bioinformatics Program, Loyola University Chicago, 1052 W Loyola Ave, Chicago,
IL 60626, USA.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola 
University Chicago, 2160 S First Ave, Maywood, IL 60153, USA.

Filamentous phages establish chronic infections in their bacterial hosts, and new
phages are secreted by infected bacteria for multiple generations, typically
without causing host death. Often, these viruses integrate in their host's genome
by co-opting the host's XerCD recombinase system. In several cases, these viruses
also encode genes that increase bacterial virulence in plants and animals. Here, 
we describe a new filamentous phage, UPϕ901, which we originally found integrated
in a clinical isolate of Escherichia coli from urine. UPϕ901 and closely related 
phages can be found in published genomes of over 200 other bacteria, including
strains of Citrobacter koseri, Salmonella enterica, Yersinia enterocolitica, and 
Klebsiella pneumoniae. Its closest relatives are consistently found in urine or
in the blood and feces of patients with urinary tract infections. More distant
relatives can be found in isolates from other environments, including sewage,
water, soil, and contaminated food. Each of these phages, which we collectively
call 'UPϕ viruses', also harbors two or more novel genes of unknown function.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/ve/veaa030 
PMCID: PMC7307601
PMID: 32607251 

