
1. Vet Microbiol. 2020 Aug;247:108798. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2020.108798. Epub 2020 
Jul 12.

Two copies of the ail gene found in Yersinia enterocolitica and Yersinia
kristensenii.

Joutsen S(1), Johansson P(2), Laukkanen-Ninios R(3), Björkroth J(2),
Fredriksson-Ahomaa M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Hygiene and Environmental Health, Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, P.O.Box 66 (Agnes Sjöbergin katu 2), 00014, University of Helsinki,
Finland; Risk Assessment Unit, Finnish Food Authority, Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Department of Food Hygiene and Environmental Health, Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, P.O.Box 66 (Agnes Sjöbergin katu 2), 00014, University of Helsinki,
Finland.
(3)Department of Food Hygiene and Environmental Health, Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, P.O.Box 66 (Agnes Sjöbergin katu 2), 00014, University of Helsinki,
Finland; Food Safety Unit, Finnish Food Authority, Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Department of Food Hygiene and Environmental Health, Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, P.O.Box 66 (Agnes Sjöbergin katu 2), 00014, University of Helsinki,
Finland. Electronic address: maria.fredriksson-ahomaa@helsinki.fi.

Yersinia enterocolitica is the most common Yersinia species causing foodborne
infections in humans. Pathogenic strains carry the chromosomal ail gene, which is
essential for bacterial attachment to and invasion into host cells and for serum 
resistance. This gene is commonly amplified in several PCR assays detecting
pathogenic Y. enterocolitica in food samples and discriminating pathogenic
isolates from non-pathogenic ones. We have isolated several non-pathogenic
ail-positive Yersinia strains from various sources in Finland. For this study, we
selected 16 ail-positive Yersinia strains, which were phenotypically and
genotypically characterised. Eleven strains were confirmed to belong to Y.
enterocolitica and five strains to Yersinia kristensenii using whole-genome
alignment, Parsnp and the SNP phylogenetic tree. All Y. enterocolitica strains
belonged to non-pathogenic biotype 1A. We found two copies of the ail gene (ail1 
and ail2) in all five Y. kristensenii strains and in one Y. enterocolitica
biotype 1A strain. All 16 Yersinia strains carried the ail1 gene consisting of
three different sequence patterns (A6-A8), which were highly similar with the ail
gene found in high-pathogenic Y. enterocolitica biotype 1B strains (A2). The Ail 
protein encoded by the ail1 gene was highly conserved compared to the Ail protein
encoded by the ail2 gene. Multiple sequence alignment of the ail gene and Ail
protein were conducted with MAFF. In total, 10 ail sequence variations have been 
identified, of which 8 conserved ones belonged to the ail1 gene. According to our
results, the detection of ail alone is not sufficient to predict the
pathogenicity of Yersinia isolates.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2020.108798 
PMID: 32768239 

