
1. Saudi J Biol Sci. 2020 Oct;27(10):2514-2520. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2020.04.006.
Epub 2020 Apr 14.

The first bioactivity studies of Acantholimon lycopodioides from high altitude
Karakoram-Himalayan desert.

Parvez MK(1), Basudan OA(1), Noman OM(1), Al-Dosari MS(1), Alqasoumi SI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, King Saud University,
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

Couple of ethnopharmacological surveys in the Indian Ladakh and Pakistani Shigar 
valleys has reported the medicinal use of Acantholimon lycopodioides against
cardiac and gastric disorders that however, remains without scientific rationale 
or experimental validations. Here, we assess the in vitro bio/therapeutic
activities of A. lycopodioides extracts as well as chloroform, ethyl acetate,
n-butanol and aqueous fractions. The in vitro β-carotene-linoleic acid bleaching 
and DPPH radical scavenging methods demonstrated a very high anti-oxidative
property of chloroform and ethyl acetate fractions compared to others. Cell
viability assay (MTT) on human cervical (HeLa), breast (MDA-MB321) and liver
(HepG2) cancer cells revealed their differential cytotoxicity, except the
chloroform fraction. Of these, the precipitate exerted highest cytotoxicity on
HepG2 cells followed by aqueous fraction on MDA-MB321 cells. Notably, the
non-cytotoxicity of chloroform fraction coincided with its highest anti-oxidative
activity. Further, the chloroform fraction showed marked hepatoprotection (up to 
84%) against 3'7'dichlorofluorescin triggered free radicals induced oxidative
damage. Also, the hepatoprotective chloroform fraction mildly activated CYP3A4 in
HepG2 cells (dual-luciferase assay). Moreover, the A. lycopodioides extracts and 
fractions showed differential anti-bacterial and anti-fungal activities. Of
these, while S. aureus was more sensitive to the water-insoluble extract, ethyl
acetate fraction showed moderate activity against E. coli and C. albicans. On the
other hand, the chloroform fraction showed promising activity against S. Aureus, 
C. albicans, P. vulgaris and E. faecalis. In conclusion, our data for the first
time, demonstrated promising anti-oxidative, hepatoprotective, anti-cancer,
anti-microbial and CYP3A4 activating salutations of A. lycopodioides. This
warrants further studies towards isolation and identification of its
therapeutically active principles.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2020.04.006 
PMCID: PMC7499106
PMID: 32994707 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.

